We're looking at the riskier parts of
the market. They can't get much better
than this.
>> Technology companies driven by
artificial intelligence is going to be
where you get your earnings growth this
quarter.
>> On the whole, things are quite nice, but
the fact is there are a lot of potholes.
The pullback would be healthy.
>> With continued clarity on tariffs, we've
got a a calmer market. Hopefully, this
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, investors ignoring the
drama as President Donald Trump prepares
to visit the Federal Reserve building.
The European Union and the United States
are said to be closing in on a trade
deal, and big tech earnings are
delivering. Alphabet is plowing billions
of dollars into AI investments. It's
more fuel for a record-breaking rally.
>> So, there used to be questions about how
long this investment cycle into AI
infrastructure could continue. Some
people speculating maybe it was
plateauing. Well, wonder no more.
Alphabet comes out. Not only did they
increase their spending by 11%, but you
have discussions around Sunundchai
saying if we don't do this, we'll fall
behind. If we don't do this, we can't
meet our customers needs. And what
you're hearing from around the street is
that this AI investment cycle is longer
and deeper than most people had
expected.
>> Alphabet's one story, Tesla quite
another, down hard in the pre-market.
Elon Musk saying this, we probably could
have a few rough quarters. Revenues
down, vehicles delivered down, average
selling price down, the transition from
pre- autonomy to post autonomy. It's a
tricky one.
>> When it comes to Elon Musk, too, what is
happening in policy in Washington is
also hurting his business right now.
He's concerned about the EV tax credits
that have been pulled out with the one
big beautiful bill and then also tariffs
on the horizon. They admitted yesterday
that not knowing the tariff story, the
fact that there are going to be higher
tariffs, especially when it comes to
China where everyone is getting their
batteries and their raw materials, that
is going to really complicate their
trajectory. So, they're in a tough
position right now. And he was honest
about that.
>> Stock is down in the pre-market by 6%.
Let's talk about trade. The prospect of
a deal between the EU and the US. We
played this game yesterday. The bad news
is it's 15%. The good news is it's not
30.
>> To me, I'm still trying to wrap my head
around what's good and what's bad.
Because right now, I was looking at the
ECB, which is going to meet later today,
and their expectation was for a 10%
baseline tariff, and that was going to
slow growth, but not that badly. The
worst case scenario was a 20%. Okay,
well, we got 15. So, is this okay, it's
fine, we've got certainty, let's all
just shrug it off. Is this this is the
beginning of yet another negotiation?
What's the end point to these
negotiations? And that's really my
ultimate question. And are these deals
true certainty?
>> Well, these deals I think could be a bit
fluid and the Treasury Secretary said
that last night speaking to Fox News.
The fact that if they don't like what
Japan is doing, say the tariff rate
could go up. What I would say though is
very clear hearing from the president
last night cuz I was with him at the AI
summit. 15 is the new 10. If you think
you're getting under 15, you're not. 15
is now the floor. And then the president
went on to say that they are close to an
agreement with the European Union. He
said everyone's going to get between 15
and 50%. And then he said there's over
200 countries. He was talking about
countries he's some of them he even
admitted he hasn't even heard of. And he
says it's a lot of deals. Quote even if
you're like me a deal junkie.
>> Europe in focus a little bit later this
morning 8:15 Eastern time that ECB
decision. 30 minutes later we'll have a
news conference with President Lagard.
In between jobless claims at 8:30 and
just before that earnings from American
Airlines this morning. Futures positive
building on alltime highs. Coming up
over the next 60 minutes or so. Andrew
Sheets of Morgan Stanley warning of
slower growth still ahead. Ed Mills of
Raymond James as President Trump says
countries will face tariffs anywhere
from 15 to 50% and Dan Ies of Wedbush as
Elon Musk is expecting a rough few
quarters. We begin this hour with stocks
trading at all-time highs. Morgan
Stanley's Andrew Sheets warning of a
tougher second half, warning of slower
growth, sticker inflation, and no Fed
rate cuts. Andrew joins us now for more.
Andrew, good morning, sir. Stocks at
all-time highs, credit spreads
incredibly tight. Are you making the
case that perhaps second half dynamics
won't support these markets?
>> Yeah, good good morning. So, so I do
think investors do need to prepare for
what could feel like a very different
second half. I I think a lot of us are
looking at these markets, incredibly
strong credit markets, incredibly strong
equity markets. And you know, there's a
temptation to think, well, maybe tariffs
don't matter. Maybe everything that's
been happening just kind of doesn't
matter in the in the in the face of all
these other positive forces. But I think
what the market kind of needs to deal
with is that we haven't really made
contact yet with what we think are going
to be the main inflationary or growth
impacts of those tariffs. And and a lot
of those are are going to come in the
second half, not not the first half of
the year. And and so specifically, you
know, we're going to get kind of a core
PCE number at the end of this month that
will show the start of an uptick. I
think markets may really start to care
about that kind of next month, mid next
month, where you get the next CPI
number, another uptick of of inflation,
you know, two upticks. That's a trend.
And then as you get deeper into the
second half of the year, that's when our
economists at Morgan Stanley are
forecasting growth to continue to
decelerate and kind of get down to kind
of sub 1% in in kind of the fourth
quarter of 25, first quarter of 26. So,
you know, that's a very different
combination than where we've been. And
so I think for while it's tempting to
think markets are kind of resilient in
the face of anything, I think they still
need to be tested in the face of of that
changing mix. And that's why I think we
could get a little bit of rockiness, not
severe rockiness, but a bit of rockiness
in the third quarter.
>> So far this year, Andrew, how much of
the bad economic data has been masked by
the good uh investment cycle that we've
seen with respect to AI?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I think that is a
positive story and and look, you alluded
to this uh you know, earlier in the show
that the investment story in AI is is
real and it's going to be significant. I
mean, we're forecasting roughly $3
trillion of spending on AI data centers
and hardware just through 2028. Um, you
know, these are enormous numbers and and
there's a lot further to go. But, you
know, I also think what's notable is
that with a lot of these factors that
investors have been focused on, tariffs,
immigration, there's a large lag in all
of these things. I mean, again, if we
look at kind of tariff collections,
they've only recently began to
accelerate rapidly. And so, you know, if
we think about kind of final private
demand within the GDP numbers, the
numbers that's probably the fairest
number. It's not distorted by the big
swings in imports and exports. you know,
that number has still been running at a
pretty healthy kind of 2% type of range
in the first and second quarter of this
year. It starts to step down a lot in
the back half. So again, the the AI
investment story that's secular that's
going to continue in the background, but
I also think part of the masking has
just been in the delay and that delay is
is going to start to give way in the
second half. How much, Andrew, when you
talk to clients, and this is something
of a psychology question, do you feel
that people just shrug off what you're
talking about, that stagflationary mix
that so many people were talking about a
couple months ago, saying, "Look, if you
cry wolf again and again, I'm not going
to believe you." How much is that kind
of what you get met with when you talk
to clients?
Yeah, I think that's a hu a huge issue
because because these issues of, you
know, higher inflation, slower growth
from tariffs, the these have been in the
conversation now for a while and I think
investors are understandably kind of
tired or frustrated of um of of kind of
dealing with these issues that month
after month kind of continue to to be
kicked back. And even even the non-farm
payroll number we think we're getting on
August 1st, Morgan Stanley is expecting
140,000 jobs. You know, we're expecting
a pretty good, you know, a pretty good
number. Um, so something that we think
is going to be still showing some some
resilience. Again, the growth weakness
is a little bit delayed. So again, I
think investors are understandable of
why they're skeptic skeptical of this,
but we do think that slowdown is coming.
And this is again where kind of that CPI
number is so important. I mean, I think
a second straight uptick that should
start to get some attention. When it
comes to AI and that eye watering number
you're talking about for 2028, how much
is that dependent on deregulation?
Yesterday at the AI summit said the most
important person in the room was not
Nvidia's uh Jensen Wang, but actually
was the EPA administrator when it comes
to making sure that they can get these
contracts through the US government.
>> So yeah, the um the power side of this
is, you know, is enormous. there's, you
know, maybe a a 45, you know, gigawatt
shortfall of power, you know, over this
over this period of time, over this
funding cycle. So, you know, getting the
electricity into these into these
plants, that's going to be huge. I think
that's the biggest that's the biggest
bottleneck we face. We think the water
issues are maybe less significant, but
the power issues are huge. And there's a
big regulatory element of that. There's
a big production element of that. And
that regulation is also not just
federal, it's state, it's local. It's
very complex.
>> So this is going to be a complex
environment over the next few years.
When you talk about tariffs, I just
would love to understand from your
point, do you think the administration
has conditioned the market to accept
these higher rates they're now talking
about?
>> You know, I'm not sure they have
actually because these higher rates are
still pretty new. And I think when we
also are listening to commentary from
companies, I think companies don't know
how long they're solving for for the
tariff duration again because it's been
it's still possible to believe that
these tariff rates are still only going
to be temporary that they'll come back
down that this is all kind of part of
that art of the deal that that even the
the 15% rate will only be will only be
temporary. So I think that is still
still a challenge. I think it's the
cumulative effect, right? a you know,
you know, I think the US collected 26
billion of of tariffs in the most recent
month we have data, which is June. You
had 26 billion annualized is over 1% of
GDP. That that's a big number over a
given month. It's it's not that big of a
deal. But the more time that goes on,
the more this cumulative effect piles
up, I think that that does have a
grinding larger issue that's going to be
felt by companies, felt by consumers.
And so, you know, the duration on this
stuff matters. And again, I I don't know
if there's been, you know, we don't
think there's been full adjustment. And
that's a reason why we do think growth
slows down that there is this cumulative
effect of of change of change that we
have not seen yet. Uh that's happening
on both the the uh tariff side and also
on the immigration side of the economy.
>> Andrew, thoughtful stuff as always.
Andrew Sheets there from Morgan Stanley
on the US economy and on global markets.
The next test is the economic data. What
does the pass through look like? If we
get weaker data, how forgiving will
investors be? And does it complicate the
easing bias at the Federal Reserve?
>> And on the contrary side, if you don't
see that kind of pain filter into the
economic data, how much do people double
down on bullishness and then get
potentially smacked in the face when
some of these potential ramifications
come through? I know that sounds really
dramatic, but that's kind of what Andrew
was talking about.
>> I'm with you. Morgan Stanley not alone.
Goldman Sachs talking about something
similar that these dynamics, the growth
inflation mix will sour in about half of
this year. We'll see. Yeah, but if you
cry wolf too many times, nobody's going
to really believe you. And I think
that's part of what's going on here is
that the bears have been wrong for so
long that people are just saying, "Stop
being so pessimistic. AI will solve
everything." And that's sort of the
dynamic right now in the market.
>> We're all massively desensitized. So
desensitized that this headline here
isn't shaking anyone. The president
visiting the Federal Reserve later on
today.
>> No one's really surprised because of
this issue. He's almost told the market
what he plans to do and conditioned them
that he obviously has a problem with Jay
Powell. Also, I will say the Treasury
Secretary made it very clear that they
are just going to let him serve out his
term and they are not in a rush even yet
to name someone to have this idea of a
shadow Fed chair. I think a lot of
people also, especially on the heels of
the Wall Street Journal report last
night about Epstein and what's going on
at the DOJ that they view this strictly
as a distraction tactic.
>> So, what's the trade? Jordan Rochester
will join us a little bit later from
Missouo. is making the case that just
price in more cuts for 26. Forget the
games in the theater, the drama of 25.
Just price in more rate cuts for 26.
>> And that's what a lot of people are
saying. That's what we heard yesterday
from Bank of America as well from Adicha
Bahave saying essentially whoever they
put in the office next year is going to
have an inclination to cut rates.
Whether that's going to be challenged by
some sagflationary type data, I don't
know. People aren't even considering
that because ultimately that is going to
be a predicating factor for whoever gets
that nomination.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. Equity futures this morning
positive by about a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500 following another all-time high
at a close yesterday with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara Arnand. Hey yhara.
>> Good morning John. We are just over a
week away from President Trump's August
1st trade deadline. Last night the
president said he would set reciprocal
tariffs between 15 and 50% for countries
who do not make a deal. While the EU,
the EU and US are moving toward an
agreement that would set a 15% rate.
Trump said the EU can pay a lower rate
if it agrees to open up to American
businesses.
Meanwhile, shares of Tesla are falling
6% in the pre-market after the EV maker
reported second quarter results that
missed already lowered Wall Street
expectations. Revenue fell 12%, its
sharpest sharpest decline in a decade.
CEO Elon Musk warned of a few rough
quarters ahead as Tesla loses EV
incentives in the US. And on the flip
side, Alphabet shares are rising three
and a half% in the pre-market after its
second quarter sales beat estimates. The
company said it's raising cap capital
spending by 10 billion to 85 billion
this year, citing rising demand for
cloud and AI services. Google is weaving
its flagship a I model Gemini into its
product portfolio as it confronts
competition from both Meta and
Microsoft. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program 15 is the new 10.
>> We're going to have a very very simple
tariff for some of the countries. A
straight simple tariff of anywhere
between 15 and 50%.
Up next, we'll catch up with Ed Mills of
Raymond James, live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Check out the euro this morning. Euro
dollar 11748 down by 210 of 1%. An ECB
meeting later on this morning after
cutting borrowing costs by 200 basis
points over the last 12 months. The ECB
and Christine Lagard are expected to hit
pause at a meeting later today.
>> Yeah. And if they do, that would be the
first pause since it July 2024 meeting.
And the big question is going to be how
much further are they going to go? Will
they cut again or are they going to
remain on hold for a prolonged period of
time?
>> Expected to remain on hold and then
figure out what policy looks like. We're
all in the same boat. We're waiting for
a deal between the US and the EU. Equity
futures positive by about a tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500, up a third on the NASDAQ
under surveillance this morning. 15 is
the new 10.
We're going to have a very very simple
tariff for some of the countries have so
many countries you can't negotiate deals
with everyone. So we'll have a straight
simple tariff of anywhere between 15 and
50%. A couple we have 50 because we
haven't been getting along with those
countries too well. So we just say let's
pay 50 and uh that's the way it is.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump suggesting tariff
rates will not go below 15% as Europe is
said to be closing in on a deal ahead of
its August 1st deadline. Bloomberg's
Aella Gardner joins us now for more.
Aketta, welcome to the program. Just how
close are we to an agreement between the
EU and the US?
But we still are not sure exactly how
close the US and the EU are to a deal.
But as you said, we do know now that the
new floor is 15% after President Trump
and his top cabinet officials have
continued to say that 10% was the floor.
That seems to be shifting, but that
number is particularly important to note
because that is the figure that Japan
just secured this week for their tariff
deal. They also secured 50% for
automobiles, which is a huge question
for them. They really wanted to see that
tariff go down from 25%. But with the EU
still in focus, the president said
yesterday that their conversations are
very serious. But something that
commerce secretary Howard Letic said in
his interview with Anmarie just
yesterday is he really touted that 50
that $550 billion fund that Japan is now
touting for the US and investment fund.
They say it's all new capital and it
really shows that they're looking for
these big shiny objects from countries.
They want to show that they're securing
a deal that in their eyes is good for
the American people and that is
something that they could be looking
from the EU and other countries going
forward.
>> We're slowly getting some clarity on
what these trade agreements might look
like over the next several months. Where
we're not really getting any clarity is
the future of Chairman Powell. To have
this on the schedule today, Kayla,
you've been following it. The president
will visit the Federal Reserve. What's
the objective of this visit?
Yeah, we've been talking about this
visit all week, but we did not know that
President Donald Trump was also going to
be on the visit. That was surprise to
me. This came in last night that he is
expected to visit the Federal Reserve.
We knew that his top aids, including his
budget director, Russell Vote, were
expected to make that visit. Also, some
other top officials. But now, the
president is going there. And this is a
really interesting contrast because the
Federal Reserve, of course, is an
independent entity. You do not typically
see presidents visit the buildings and
we know that they're looking at the
renovation projects. There's been a lot
of skepticism about the cost overrun
which they estimate to be about $700
million. But Federal Reserve Chair
Jerome Powell has continued to push back
to say that they are handling their
finances responsibly and push backed
against these allegations that he is
wrongly handling the finances of the
Fed.
>> Aala Gardner down in Washington. AA
thank you. To extend the conversation,
Ed Mills of Raymond James joins us now
for more. Ed Mills, a tour of the
Federal Reserve HQ. What's the purpose
of this tour?
>> Well, John, Donald Trump's a builder. He
loves a good tour of any construction
site. Uh he loves theatrics. Uh he loves
to keep this pressure campaign on. I
don't think that President Trump is
going to fire uh Jerome Powell, but do
they like to keep that pressure on? Do
they like to have conversations about
who the next Fed chair could be?
Absolutely. Do they kind of think that
this could potentially get people to
focus on what that next Fed chair could
do, how dovish they would be, how they
could deal with kind of the long-term
interest rates that Scott Besson always
talks about. Uh, but a little bit of
theatrics because he loves theatrics.
>> I'm envisioning now the president with a
hard hat this afternoon at 4 p.m. when
he takes that tour. Ed, is it working
though? This jawbon, these tactics when
it comes to the Federal Reserve?
Yeah, Amory, when I talk to clients at
Raymond James, they get concerned about
the independence of the Fed. They get
concerned that this could have the exact
opposite effect. Ultimately, if you saw
Jay Powell resign early or you saw him
fired, the concern there would be, you
know, you'd actually see the long end of
the curve uh blow out a bit. Um there is
a concern already in the market that we
just lifted the debt limit. And with the
lift of the debt limit in 2023, the last
time we used a lot of extraordinary
measures, you had the 10-year go up 100
basis points. Now, we're not calling for
that this time, but there is concern
that there's a bias higher in long-term
rates, and to do anything that could
affect that in a negative way is not
welcome news by this market.
>> Our colleagues in Washington caught up
with Speaker Mike Johnson yesterday, and
he said he was disenchanted with the
Fed, but he wouldn't say whether or not
he thinks the president should fire
them. He was said it was unclear about
the legal authority that the president
has to dismiss the Fed. Could that give
the market some comfort given the fact
that the Federal Reserve comes with the
purview of Congress?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think what we've seen uh
throughout Jay Powell's term is that
he's actually gotten a lot of good
relationships built on Capitol Hill. It
was actually unusual how well he has
developed some of those relationships.
Um, and I think that gives him a bit of
insulation right now. Uh, Amory, I do
think that if we see coming out of today
that Trump calls for an investigation,
we already had Bessant call for an
investigation last week. That's actually
positive news because investigations
take time. You always need a verb in
Washington DC. If you're not going to
fire, what else are you going to do?
Let's investigate. Let's tour. These
other verbs extend out the timeline of
his ability to stay there. And then it
kind of goes to that next question of
who's next. Is it going to be Waller? Is
it going to be Wars? Is it going to be
Besson? Is it going to be hazard? Those
type of conversations uh is where the
next verb goes after we have that quote
unquote investigation into what's really
going on here.
>> Ed, in the beginning, people were
talking about Fed independence. It seems
as though the markets moved on. How much
do clients call you and take this
seriously versus say how much is this a
distraction technique as Amarie was
mentioning? Yeah, Lisa, I do think that
the part of the reason why they have
moved on is because there's been
multiple times where the president's um
kind of has said that he will not fire
Powell and that others in his cabinet,
especially the Treasury Secretary, has
come out and said that that is not going
to happen. He's going to let him uh play
out his term. um and the fact that each
of the individuals I've mentioned are
viewed as credible next Fed chairs. Uh
there could be a debate among the group
as to kind of who the market would like
more and and who would be the more
traditional one, but we're not seeing
candidates so far that are so outside
the norm that they say, "All right,
well, at least once we get through this,
who is in that seat was in the kind of
lane of normal candidates?" and there
therefore they're okay with this
>> which is a reason why a lot of people
are just parking the apprentice the Fed
style uh to the side and taking a look
at what the tariff rates are and the
next policy step and when it comes to
the tariffs it does seem like people are
welcoming this degree of certainty how
much certainty are we getting from the
deals that are being announced given the
fact that they're fungeible it seems
like they're still in a negotiation
process
>> Lisa I thought we were in agreement that
this was Love Island not apprentice but
we'll we'll move on from there
>> of the we that later.
>> Yeah. On the tariffs, you know, I do
think that there is a lot of folks that
are saying, "All right, these deals are
not real deals that these are
memorandums of understanding. They're
kind of easy to kind of come up with in
a abstract sense right now. the real
work comes later and therefore there's
an expectation that come August 1st or
soon around August 1st we'll get the ma
vast majority of our main trading
partners uh to sign thatou live to fight
another day the US China relationship it
seems like that August 12th deadline is
going to get extended because Besson is
meeting uh with his counterpart next
week and so to the extent that we've had
positive things um even though the bar
is being kind of moved once again from
that 10 to 15. As long as it doesn't
seem as if something completely
unexpected comes, they're okay. If
there's a bit of nervousness out there,
though, Lisa, is the sectoral tariffs.
Most of my week this week has been
answering questions about what's
happening with semiconductors because
they're at 52- week highs. And a
unexpected outcome there is what could
rattle the market.
>> Nothing beats a trashy UK season of Love
Island. Ed, thank you, sir. Ed Mills,
>> that was your takeaway. There's no way
you watch Love Island.
>> Of course I do.
>> You know he watches Love Island.
>> The British version or the American
version?
>> The British version.
>> All of them probably.
>> They switch off from financial markets
and everything going on here.
>> But do you? That's the question.
>> Up next, I'll get dialed in. Dan Ives of
Wed Bush as Elon Musk warns of a hard
year ahead for Tesla.
[Music]
Three days of gangs on the S&P 500.
Incidentally, the longest daily winner
streak of the month so far. Equity
futures this morning just about positive
on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by a quarter
of 1%. Earnings validating the rally of
the last several months. Beat and raise.
Beat and raise has been a theme over the
past few weeks. American Airlines out a
little bit later. The airlines for me
very interesting because the airlines
were the first to warn and the first to
signal the allcle over the last few
months.
>> Yeah. Although which airlines? And this
actually is going to get increasingly
important. We heard from Delta, we heard
from United. Uh, a raise and a beat and
the sense that there was this resurgence
of customer demand. Southwest, not so
much. And how much is this a tale of two
different customer bases?
>> Let's get some single names for you and
a look at some of that. 3 hours away
from the opening bound with your morning
movers. Here's Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Yeah, some of these big tech
tech names impossible to avoid this
morning. Alphabet being one of them
reporting after the bell. It is getting
that AI demand that is exciting
investors despite the fact it talked
about $85 billion in capital
expenditures, 10 billion more than it
had forecast previously. First shares
dipped postmarket off of that. But
considering the type of demand it's
getting and it needs to spend that much,
investors are okay rewarding it. On the
other side of things, we have Tesla this
morning. Those shares falling quite a
bit, just under 6%. The quarter itself
was really difficult. It was the worst
revenue uh in over a decade in terms of
growth there and dropping there. And
then it was also a rough quarters ahead
that Elon Musk warns as he tried to
frame this as a company in transition
from EVs to robo taxis. I know you're
speaking to Dan Ives in just a moment
about that. So I wore my brightest
jacket in honor of that. Finally
wrapping things up with Chipotle. They
also reported earnings after the bell
yesterday. Easily the worst performer in
the S&P premarket, down 10%. They cut
their annual outlook for a second time,
something that's very rare or had been
rare for Chipotle. They said it's
economic anxiety. The CEO saying that
customers want value over what he called
freshness and quality. He says they're
not going to offer any discounted type
offerings. Instead, they just need to do
a better job communicating that Chipotle
meals are a good deal. John,
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. on a
radar this morning. President Donald
Trump declaring countries will face
tariff rates between 15 and 50% as
countries race to make agreements ahead
of his August 1st deadline.
>> Yeah, I keep coming back to people are
rallying around this idea of certainty
even though it isn't the 10% that we
initially thought was the floor. My
ultimate question is how much certainty
do we actually have given the fact that
you've heard a number of trading
partners that already have deals come
out and say we're looking for a little
bit of a better rate and you have the
president saying well if they don't
behave well we're going to raise that
tariff rate. So again how much certainty
have we really gotten? There's not a lot
of certainty because there's going to be
uncertainty throughout the entire
administration. We are 6 months in and
we have another three and a half years
to go. What I will say though it is
clear that no one is getting under 15%.
really no one in terms of how I viewed
yesterday's discussions with a number of
cabinet officials and also other people
at the White House. Also, when the
European Union comes out saying that
they have these lists and they're going
to go for 30% retaliatory rate on the
United States if there's no deal in
place, basically everyone in Washington
is shrugging this off and they're just
like, "Yeah, whatever." They have to say
this. They're taking cues from us. It's
a negotiating tactic.
>> And if you don't strike a deal, maybe
the floor comes up. If you wait, maybe
the floor comes up from 15 to 20.
>> Yeah. At what point does the market
care? Here's the ultimate question. Has
the market really moved on and is it
legitimate to just move on from this
idea? Or could we see something that
actually rattles people again and gets a
sense of a trade war brewing once more?
>> Got to see it in the data. We've talked
about this over the past few weeks.
Don't see it in the earnings in a big
way. Seen some great earnings, seen some
raises to guidance as well from some
cyclical names. When you start to see it
in the data, if you see it in the data,
then we've got a different story.
>> And then all of a sudden 15% becomes a
little bit more punitive. I'm very
curious about what the ECB says about
this rate and how they bake that into
their growth estimates for the region
and what that means for the projections
going forward.
>> The ECB meeting today that concludes at
8:15 Eastern time. Let's turn to this.
Another central bank, President Donald
Trump making a rare visit to the Federal
Reserve this afternoon. He'll tour the
construction site being criticized for
cost overruns. Trump's visit marks the
first of its kind in nearly two decades.
>> You don't normally see this and we did
know to Aaya Gardner's point earlier. We
did know that administrative officials
were going to head over to the Fed
today. We just didn't know the president
of United States was going to be joining
them. I like what Ed Mills was saying.
This is someone who, you know, loves
theater, loves a little bit of drama.
Also, public confidence in a recent
Gallup survey shows that the chairman
Federal Reserve Jerome Powell is at a
low right now. So maybe the president
maybe it's a distraction tactic but at
least he's leaning into I think
politically what they would say maybe
where the American people are and he
could say you guys don't trust him. I
don't either and I'm going to go take a
look at this renovation myself.
>> The president's got expensive taste. He
might make the case to spend more.
>> You never know.
>> I was actually wondering that. Is he
going to say I don't like the marble. I
want better marble here. A little
history lesson on this. Exactly. I would
like gold plating and I'd like some
angels. I am curious about uh just the
history here. I was looking 2006 George
W. went to go visit and uh go to the
then Fed chair swearing in ceremony of
Ben Bernanki. Before that, Gerald Ford
1975, Franklin Roosevelt in 1937. Those
are the previous visits from presidents
to Fed officials.
>> But those visits, the tone was
different. I'm going to see the swearing
in. I am welcoming this person. I am
excited about this Federal Reserve
independence. This is about I don't like
what you're doing. And even you have
senators now calling for this
investigation into the renovations. The
renovations are above budget, but at the
same time, this is not going to be one
of those George W. Bush exciting visits.
This is going to be something the
president is going to, you know, put the
Howard hat on and say, "This is
terrible."
>> They weren't real estate developers. He
is.
>> Yeah, exactly. I love this place.
>> Big condos
>> this afternoon in the building.
>> In the building. Pay for the
renovations.
>> Lease them out to Fed governors.
>> Exactly.
>> Who knows?
>> Save money.
>> Let's get to earnings. Alphabet
reporting strong AI demand alongside
surge in capital spending. the tech
giant raising its capex forecast for the
year by 10 billion to $85 billion
>> and they're not done. The commentary was
saying that they're going to keep
raising next year because ultimately if
they don't they're not going to keep up
with customer demand. On top of that,
they have to offer compensation that
also was significantly higher than
expected. Why? Well, thank you Meta and
Mark Zuckerberg and how much they're
paying people to get talent on board.
They're increasing their compensation
packages over at Google as well because
they need the top tier talent. This just
shows it is a war for talent. It is a
war for prowess in the AI world and it
is not going away.
>> Almost a year today, the risk of
underinvesting is dramatically greater
than the risk of overinvesting for us
here the alphabet CEO 12 months ago.
>> And it seems like that hasn't changed
and I will just say open AI uh chat GPT
how much is that the threat that keeps
up sunundai at night because ultimately
that is an existential threat to their
business model at a time where they're
still highly dependent on advertising
revenues.
>> That stock is up by more than 3%. Let's
stick with the Mac 7. Tesla CEO Elon
Musk warning of some rough times ahead
after one of the automakers worst
quarters in over a decade. Dan Ives of
Wedbush is the biggest Tesla bull on the
street with a price target of 500 and an
outperform rating. Dan joins us now for
more. Dan, good morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> Revenue down 12%, vehicles delivered
down, average selling price down, and
yet you're at $500. Tell me why. Yeah, I
mean look the quarter itself nothing to
write home about but I mean our view
it's about autonomous robotics AI is the
future for Tesla. So to me yeah it's a
rough few quarters ahead but I believe
autonomous we are in the beginning
what's going to be a trillion dollar
valuation alone for Tesla. So that's why
I don't get so concerned when we talk
about deliveries which actually were
kind of in line you know when we look at
what's going to happen in the second
half the story here when it comes to
physical AI two best ones out there it's
going to be Tesla and Nvidia
>> moving from a pre- autonomy to a post
autonomy world did he do enough on the
call last night to convince investors
that it's going to be smooth saving
>> look I mean obviously the call you know
definitely some could have criticism in
terms of you promising so much look my
view is if 20 to 30% of what he promised
you see in the next year, this is a
stock that's up 70 80% from here. So, so
that's that's why when I look at Tesla,
I don't focus and we've talked about it
so much on the show over the years. I
don't focus near-term deliveries, what
that means in terms of, you know, EV tax
credits. This is an autonomous robotic
story. And I think, look, the AI
revolution, as we saw from, you know,
from from Alphabet, I mean, we are just
in the early days of this playing out.
Maybe I'm Chicken Little, but I was
looking at this press conference. I was
reading this and I was thinking, "This
is a disaster." I mean, essentially,
this was a dream stock and suddenly
they're talking about tax credits and
things of that nature. They used to talk
about an affordable vehicle. Now,
they're talking about a stripped down
Model Y. That doesn't sound that sexy at
all, and they're going to expedite
production of pre uh of of of other
vehicles and put that on hold. What
would it take for you to get bearish?
>> Yeah, look, I mean, you you bring up
great points. That will be the bearish
points. When it comes to the affordable
next vehicle, is that just going be a
stripped down version? Look, Lisa, my
view is that it comes down to like robo
taxi. If you're in 25 cities in the next
year and you actually start to get
volume production of Optimus when it
comes to robotics, I think 90% of the
future value is going to be in the AI
story, not on the actual deliveries in
terms of cars out there. You have 10
million vehicles in terms of Teslas out
there. It's all about the data. And I
believe the big thing is going to be the
shareholder meeting where they'll have a
significant investment XAI and I think
that's where you get a more of a wartime
CEO in Musk and I think that's really
going to be the difference.
>> Were you satisfied by his answers about
XAI about the investments there the
crossover with Tesla because there was a
lot of ambiguity and he was asked that
directly and he wasn't able to explain
that connection and how it really does
rebound over other than some people who
are in this industry don't really want
to work at a car company. I want to
offer them an opportunity to
>> Yeah. I wouldn't tell like that
conference call is not you wouldn't put
him in the Neri Hall of Fame that
conference call. Okay. Um but but again
we know like with Musk it's never going
to be you know it's not going to be
Microsoft like but my view is and we've
talked about it like the board they need
to get him 25% voting. I think that's
key you then that starts what's going to
be a significant investment XAI but
we've said also are there guard rails
there that they need to put on. you've
seen him become less political since the
July 4th third party, you know, to so I
think look, you want to see him less
focused on that, more focused on being
sealed because it comes down to like the
biggest asset for Tesla is Musk.
>> The press secretary yesterday was asked,
does the president support federal
agencies contracting with Elon Musk's AI
company? Her answer, I don't think so.
No. Can he do this without contracts?
Look, I think but then it comes down.
Look at Gro I when it comes to Grock and
huge part of the DoD deal. Look, the
reality is that Trump administration
could say what they're going to say, but
they need Musk. Of course, they need
Jensen. I mean, they're going to need
leaders when it comes to, you know, of
what this AI revolution. I think, look,
that's the reality. And I do think at
one point you'll start to see them, you
know, I wouldn't say necessarily become
friends again, but start to med men
fences given what Musk needs to do going
forward.
>> Elon Musk, Sam Alman were not called out
yesterday when the president was giving
shout outs at this AI summit. Is Jensen
Wang the new first buddy?
>> Look, he's at the cool kids table. I
mean, right now, like if you look where
Jensen is, like he is the first buddy
for Trump because
>> he's almost running policy. Dan,
>> look and the reality is there's one chip
in the world fueling the AI revolution.
And that's why when it comes to the
Middle East trip, who's to the right of
him? Jensen. When it comes to Andy, he's
when it comes to China negotiation, the
biggest poker chip that you have is in
media. I mean, when it comes So, yeah.
So, first buddy is wearing a black
leather jacket. His name is Jensen.
>> Final word, alphabet. What did you think
of the numbers? I thought this was as
bullish as you could see in terms of the
actual numbers from search from YouTube
and this is no longer an alphabet in the
corners like crying. This is one coming
out being like we're on the offensive.
>> You think they can make the transition
from that ad model that's dominated the
last several decades Silicon Valley. We
can make the transition away from that.
>> I think it's going to be a renaissance
for Alphabet. I still I believe from a
large cap perspective it's one of the
best risk awards out there. That's why
it's a table pounder. We went 225 in the
price target. And look, haters hate on
this and I get it, but the bears in
hibernation mode. There was nothing on
that call that they're going to grasp
onto. And I want to see them increase
capbacks. It's an arms race that right
now in AI, you want to see them in the
left lane.
>> The good news is the market's willing to
support them. Bremo, that the stock is
up off the back of this capex boost and
it's not down because then they'd have
very different problems. Well, initially
it was down and that was interesting
because people had the knee-jerk
reaction of stop spending so much before
you can give us a sense of what you're
how you're going to monetize it. But as
he spoke and he talked about customer
demand to change right now I am chat
GPTing is Google search in its decline
and I will let you know what it says.
>> But I'd also say the bears when they're
in hibernation mode in the caves they
can find AI in the spreadsheets and
that's part of I think how they've
missed so much of this AI revolution.
Look, get the popcorn out. This is just
a precursor of what's going to be a
bullish tech Microsoft Meta Palunteer
and others.
>> Dan has a web bush Dan. Appreciate it.
Great to be here. What a chat GBT say.
>> Yes, there's a strong case to be made
that Google searches noticeable decline.
Not in usage necessarily, but in
quality, user trust, and effectiveness.
>> Is this the future of this program?
>> Is this what we're going to be doing?
>> Hopefully not. We're going to move on.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump signed
executive orders to boost AI development
in the US by loosening regula
regulations and growing power supplies
for data centers. Measures will address
energy and permit issues for
infrastructure, the promotion of AI
exports, and a call for models procured
by the government to be both neutral and
unbiased. Trump says the US will lead
the world in AI. Meanwhile, Deutsche
Bank shares are rising 7 and a half% in
Frankfurt to the highest level in a
decade. The German bank reported better
than expected trading results, mirroring
the strength we saw across Wall Street.
CEO Christian Seving says the results
put the bank on track to meet its
targets for the year. And back here in
the US, IBM shares are falling 5 a.5%
after the company reported weaker than
expected sales in its software segment.
an area central to its long-term growth
strategy. Sales for the unit grew nearly
10% year-on-year to about 7.4 billion,
but that was significantly lower than
what analysts were expecting. That's
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. And next on the program,
taking the fight to the Fed.
>> Why in the world do we have such a high
interest rate? It's got to be cut.
Donald Trump is absolutely right. It's
got to be cut. This guy's got to go. He
should either resign or be replaced.
>> Up next, Jordan Rochester of Missouo
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Record highs coming into Thursday.
Equity futures just about unchanged this
morning on the S&P 500. Positive on the
NASDAQ, up by a quarter of 1%. And
Savannah this morning, taking the fight
to the Fed.
We are the most important country in the
world with the greatest economy in the
world. Why in the world do we have such
a high interest rate? It's got to be
cut. Donald Trump is absolutely right.
It's got to be cut. This guy's got to
go. He should either resign or be
replaced. And we've got to have rates
lower. Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump preparing to
visit the Federal Reserve as commerce
secretary Hammer Lutnik calls on chairp
to resign or be replaced. Jordan
Rochester of Missou writing the
following. That's a tale risk markets
can't ignore. It reinforces our view
that more rate cuts will be priced into
2026. Jordan joins us now for more.
Jordan, welcome sir. Let's talk about
market pricing, what the Fed's
projecting implied by the median dollar
for 26 and where you think things will
be a year from now.
>> Indeed. Well, John, good morning. What
you can see in terms of the numbers,
they've got two cuts for this year, more
cuts for next year. For us, the view
from Mazuo, John, is actually the risks
are to no cuts this year as long as PAL
stays in place. So, that's why it's a
key part to that story. And so we'd like
to trade Z uh five zed6 flatteners which
basically says price out cuts this year,
price in more cuts next year. Whoever
will be at the Fed following uh Trump's
uh change in in Fed chair when Pal does
step down will be more doubbish and lead
uh the direction of markets that way.
>> So Jordan push that through foreign
exchange. How does that shape a
short-term and medium-term view for the
US dollar?
Well, we've had pretty significant
selloff in the dollar so far year to
date thanks to liberation day, the FX
hedging flows, the European Renaissance
trade with Germany. So, we're going a
bit sideways in the dollar more
recently. But I think John, there's
tactical short dollar yen and long long
euro dollar trades will work. The the
view from us is we get to 122 in euro
dollar by year end, 138 in dollar yen by
year end. I think the dollar yen trade
of the two is better. Euro's been a bit
more exposed uh to uh tactical uh views
where yen had a bit of an unwind in the
long yen trade over the past two weeks
where we're starting to get a bit more
yen strength more recently.
>> Jordan, how do you factor in some of the
AI discussions and the strength that's
been really on the heels of that that
we've se seen in the economic data as
playing into this? The idea that sure
dollarization makes sense when you take
a look at monetary policy, but not if
you're trading off the relative strength
of various economies.
Indeed, the AI capex could be something
close to 2% of US GDP. It's it's quite
incredible the numbers that you see from
AI capital spending expectations. So
that actually it argues for growth to
hold up better. You uh despite all the
fears of what liberation day means for
corporates and lower investment
intentions you you got from that the AI
theme has kicked back in especially with
the US administration relaxing their H2O
export restrictions. So Lisa, in answer
to your question, it means US
exceptionalism could come back. And this
whole sell US theme, we call it the
ddollarization theme because some people
simplified it to sell America and for us
that was just too simple uh too simple
of a theme and not true. The US has a
dynamic economy, a strong labor market,
and it will outperform a lot of peers.
>> At this point, we're going to hear from
the ECB later this morning. Potentially,
we could hear their projections for
growth on the heels of the tariff rate
that is being talked about. the idea
that it's a 15% floor, not 10%. How much
does that impact the growth trajectory
of a region that's already had a lot of
optimism baked in?
>> They had a lot of op optimism baked in.
A bit of a jammy dodger in terms of they
looked at their their forecast. They had
the fiscal from Germany fully in their
numbers, but from the tariffs, they
didn't really put in the more severe
scenarios that Donald Trump was throwing
out there. So, at this this press
conference today, it'll be interesting
to see if Lagard reflects that. We won't
have an update of those numbers in the
forecast because that only comes at the
September meeting. We won't get them in
paper, but I suspect she'll have to say
actually our base case, which was 10%,
could be more like 15 or closer to the
severe scenario that the ECB had at 20.
But I I'd like to remind everybody,
Donald Trump is actually saying it could
be 30. So the ECB needs to weight their
forecast a bit more on these tariff
impacts. You had a 0.7% hit to GDP
between the severe and the baseline
expectation between uh for the ECB. It
will lower their their CPI forecast
perhaps by 0.1 to 0.2. So it's not too
severe for their inflation forecast, but
it can mean quite a lot for their GDP.
>> Jordan, I'm just going to translate just
briefly. Give me a second. Do you guys
know what a jammy dodger is?
>> No, but I assumed that it was something
very significant.
>> What does it sound like to you? What do
you think it is?
>> Jammy Dodger.
>> Yeah. What do you think that is?
>> A jammy Dodger sounds like a party at,
you know, backyard barbecue.
>> It's a biscuit. It's a biscuit.
>> But it also means British people. It's
slang for getting lucky.
>> Oh, what is it? Tommy W.
>> Jimmy Dodger.
>> The opposite opposite of sticky wicket
>> possibly. Okay, Jordan, let's continue
the conversation.
Let's talk about dolly yen. There's a
segue. Let's talk about dollar yen.
Dolly yen this week. What's more
important for Japan, the trade agreement
or the future of the Japanese prime
minister? And with the future of the
Japanese prime minister in mind, just
how wide are the range of outcomes for
fiscal policy?
>> Number one, it's the trade deal, John,
because that's fact. We know what the
trade deal is. We know it's a big
positive surprise for Japanese autos. I
don't think anyone really expected the
Japanese to get as lucky as they did in
getting a 15%. I say lucky, it's still
worse than what they had before, but the
UK was the only good example of of of
getting close to 10. And the UK exports
way less uh autos to the US than Japan,
a factor of 12 times less than Japan. So
it's a big deal for Japanese corporates
especially in the auto sector. And then
when it comes to the the the actual
leadership of Japan, that's the unknown.
We don't know if she is going to resign.
The speculation is rife that he will. Uh
the sort of polyarket projections, the
sort of betting odds were close to 80%
probability he will step down this year.
And if that were to happen, then John,
it opens up the all these tail uh risk
scenarios. But there's we don't know who
will be the front runner for that
leadership nomination. And rule one of
Japan politics is don't assume you
you'll know who wins because I remember
I remember being quite shocked when a
Sheba won last time round. So let's see
who comes to the four there. And if you
get uh Sheba being replaced by a dove,
that could be a big thing for the long
end in Japan. And that is the big story
for later this year.
>> Jordan, appreciate it. Just make a note
next time you speak to US clients. No
idea. Jordan Rochester of Missou.
Jordan, thank you so much. You taught us
all.
>> Appreciate it.
>> I mean, we all now know and I've
actually been looking at it.
>> Been researching biscuits.
>> They look very pretty. Yeah, they do.
Lindser, they're like Lindsor tarts.
>> Kind of things that you like when you
were a kid. Anyway, his view on the
Federal Reserve price out 25, price in
more for 26.
>> And this seems to be increasingly
consensus. I mean, we heard this
yesterday uh from Adiche Bahave of Bank
of America who sees no cuts this year,
but potentially 100 basis points of cuts
next year. Why? Because essentially
whoever comes into the Fed will have an
inclination to cut.
>> Let's close out this segment. Up next on
the program, what was that? We'll catch
up with Aaron Canon of Clear Harbor.
>> You did that.
>> Let me cancel a pimp. I was just
wondering. I was trying to translate. He
said it and I saw you being like, I've
got no laughing and I was laughing cuz
you reacted and I knew that I did not
know. Then Zero Bance over there starts
talking about sticky wickets like you
know conversation killer. The second era
of Bloomberg surveillance up next.
[Music]
We could continue to see threats of
tariffs. There's a long list of
scenarios as to how tariffs get better
and a very short list as to how they get
worse. We're in a little bit of a
purgatory on negotiated trade deals.
>> I do think we're going to get more deals
in the coming weeks.
>> The deadline is serious. The market
should cue to this. Trade partners
should cue to this. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Everyone knows what zero bants is.
>> No,
>> like no banter.
>> We're going to start on this.
>> Zero banter. No banter.
>> Banter is a British word as well.
>> Doesn't that translate now? I think
people understand what banter is
translate. I mean, yes, but I think I'm
going to stay out of this.
>> No banter. I think I'm going to I'm
going to definitely say
>> you're on this show. It just have zero.
>> Let's move on the audience.
>> Your scores this morning look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P unchanged
record highs at a close yesterday on the
NASDAQ up by around about 0.3% later
this morning. Attention on a different
central bank, the ECB decision, 8:15
Eastern time. And then some economic
data. 8:30 jobless claims. We're
starting to get a feel for the tariff
rates. How well understood are the
consequences?
>> Yeah. And how much patience will people
have before they can really just say
we're not going to see that weakness?
really has been a chicken chicken little
market where people have said that any
kind of tariff rate even a 10% tariff
rate would cause a slowdown in growth.
Now you have 15% floor and people are
saying we can look through that. At what
point does the data really come to
surprise?
>> Get that economic date at 8:30 Eastern
time. Look out for jobless claims. We
might get a deal as well between the US
and the EU. Lisa said it yesterday 15 is
the new 10 and it certainly feels that
way the last 24 hours.
>> Absolutely. And they really only have a
week to go when it comes to trying to
finalize this deal with the European
Union. They're going to have a tough few
days ahead because remember, Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant, Howard Lutnick,
the Commerce Secretary are going to
Stockholm to meet with their Chinese
counterparts. So they need to really
wrap up the European Union trade
negotiations basically in principle
before Monday. It's very obvious though,
the European Union, which a few weeks
ago was willing to eat and tolerate a
10% tariff level, really focused a
little bit more on the sectoral tariff
levels, are now going to have to eat and
suck up 15% because that's where this
administration is with Japan and they're
not getting a better deal than Japan.
>> The White House focused on something
else later on this afternoon. The
Federal Reserve, the president said to
take a foot tour of the renovations and
this is the kind of headline this
president would like to see. This from
Turkey, cutting the oneweek repo rate by
300 basis points. That's the kind of
headline the president wants, right?
>> How much are banks actually looking
around to see who's traded in Turkey to
try to bring them on board so they can
understand better the dynamic? This is a
question. At what point is this too
much? And at what point do you get the
opposite ramification of what you're
hoping for, which is longer term rates
going up? Look, the market isn't taking
this that seriously because Scott
Bessing came out and said, "We're not in
a rush." And I think that his
conversation with you put to put to bed
a lot of the concerns that the pop and
circumstance of putting on a hard hat
and going and commenting on the marble
won't necessarily do.
>> The pressure is going to keep on
building. Let's talk about the earnings
so far. We'll get to Wow for better
Tesla a little bit later in the hour.
American Airlines just dropping. We've
heard from Delta. We'd heard from
United. They're all reinstating guidance
and talking about a better second half.
>> Yeah. And American Air also reinstated
full year guidance. However, it sees its
fullear guidance as being either down 20
cents to up 80 cents and the expectation
had been for guidance about 72 cents uh
a share. So, here's the question. How
high is the bar for other airlines to
meet? And given the fact that there was
a really optimistic tilt to what we
heard from Delta, a firming up from uh
United saying that our estimates right
now are conservative. How much is
American Air now challenged to show why
it is not seeing that type of strength
even though we all were surprised by
some of that really positive commentary
coming out of the other majors.
>> Stock is down by close to 3% in the
pre-market. Futures are doing okay, just
about positive here by close to a tenth
of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Aaron Cannon of Clear Harbor
Asset Management following another
record high. We'll speak to Libby
Cantrol of PINCO on the latest trade
threats out of Washington and Chris
Casso of Wolf Research on President
Trump's AI plan. We begin this hour with
stocks on a three-day winner streak.
Aaron Canon of Clear Harbor Asset
Management writing, "The Magnificent
Seven are expected to grow about 15%,
though notably this is less than half
the growth rate seen in full year 2024."
Aaron joins us now for more. Aaron,
welcome to the program, sir. Is that you
pushing back against some of the
euphoria?
No, I I actually think it's maybe an
argument for um the broadening that
we're seeing in the market. You know,
going to this year, we were writing
about how it was maybe going to be a bit
um easier for the the sort of 493
uh stocks outside the MAG 7 to play a
little bit of catch-up in 2025. Now, uh
equal weight S&Ps is lagging just by
about 90 basis points year to date. I
think the S&P is up call it 8.99%
and Eco8's up call it 8.1. So, you know,
they're they're moving along more more
in sync. I think it speaks to the
broadening of the market. I think the
tariff um debate and the reshoring of
capital and manufacturing probably will
augur well in the back half of the year
for maybe midcap, small cap. And in
fact, we're already seeing sectors in
the United States which typically over
the last couple years have have
underperformed that tech run like
industrials and utilities really um
perform quite well this year. I think
industrials are the the most uh positive
performing sector on the year for the
S&P.
>> Meanwhile, the NASDAQ just posted its
63rd consecutive day above its 20-day
moving average, which is the longest
streak going back to 1999. We hear these
types of measurements, 1999, 2000. Does
that kind of comparison worry you that
maybe things are getting just a bit
ahead of their skis even as you see
potential positivity under the hood?
>> Well, always a little concerned when one
sector in this case technology is is
such an overwhelming force in in the
performance of the market. um Lisa, but
if you look at forward multiples, yes,
they're they're extended and they're
they're sort of top decile, but relative
to where we were um during the dotcom
era and if you looked at just sort of
the the the attention to revenue
during.com versus the attention to
earnings in under and underlying
fundamentals, I think we're we're sort
of in a different uh regime here uh as
it pertains to to where we are in the
cycle. And I think there's also sort of
a trickle down effect, right? So, we're
looking at artificial intelligence and
of course that has an immediate impact
on technology, but it it's having an
impact on on utilities, on industrials.
We're we're thinking about
electrification. Um where's where's the
next electron going to come from? Um
nuclear takes 10 plus years to come
online if it can even be approved. So,
where are we going to find that? Is it
going to be solar and battery support
behind it? So there's just a lot going
on, I think, in a positive way that is a
different setup than than we saw in the
late 1999s.
>> We say every single day, Aaron, that the
economy is not the market. The market's
not the economy. What you're talking
about is very much the market and sort
of the optimism of the investment in AI
that might be felt in the economy in a
very real sense uh maybe a couple years
out. In the near term, you expect there
to be some turbulence coming from the
tariff rates and potentially a slowdown
in growth. Does it matter if we see that
slowdown in that economic data for the
rally that we're seeing in a market
that's looking beyond?
>> Yeah, it's really interesting. I mean, I
think there are a lot of big questions
out there as it pertains to this rally
as it pertains to AI. Um, we believe
it's going to ultimately acrue to
probably strong supporting margins,
maybe even growing margins, but we think
there will be disintermediation in the
employment market. So from an economic
perspective, you could see um areas
within the economy both sort of less
skilled as well as highly skilled that
become soft from an employment
perspective while we're seeing earnings
continue to move in the in a very
positive direction. That's a political
challenge for sure. Um but it could
acrue still positively to the market.
>> Not just a political challenge, what
does the Fed do with that type of data?
>> Yeah, it it it's challenging, Emory. I
mean, I think um at at the end of the
day, the question the Fed has to do,
which is I think where they're keeping
their eye on the ball. They have a
mission and mandate. Um there's a
political conundrum that the Fed faces.
They're right now they're damned if they
do cut. They're damned if they don't
cut. Um and uh yet they're keeping their
eye on the North Star and I think as
long as they continue to do that,
they'll they'll be in goodstead. But uh
certainly just a a lot of noise around
that. Um, I I do think if you look at
the inflation pressures of late on the
margin in the last CPI report, it it's
it was on the good side and it's not
clear to me that raising or cutting
rates is going to have any impact really
on the good side. Those are, you know,
food products, gasoline, transportation,
things like that. Um, it it's it's more
on the service side. So, if we saw
inflation on the service side, I think
it would prompt the Fed to to make an
even stronger argument that they need to
hold for longer. Well, politics is
definitely going to be at the Fed's
front door today when the president
personally heads over to the Federal
Reserve at 4 p.m. later this afternoon.
Why is the market just shrugging this
off?
>> It's a good question. I mean, I think at
the end of the day, it it it seems clear
that Paul will will will remain in place
until the end of his term. And um I I
think the market may be slightly
unsettled. I think observers are are
perhaps, you know, I guess some are
jeering, some are cheering. Um, but uh I
I think the consensus now is that Paul
will will maintain his job. But I find
it somewhat ironic, too, that we have a
building cost overrun of $2.5 billion at
the Fed and yet we don't have a
politician in Washington that cares
about the 2026 expected deficit of $1.8
trillion.
Um I it's it's uh I guess it's it's
where we are in the political uh
atmosphere and environment right now.
It's somewhat unfortunate in my opinion.
>> Aaron Cannon at Clear Harbor Asset
Management. Aaron, appreciate it. To
Aaron's point, if reckless spending was
going to keep people out of a job in
Washington, nobody would have a job in
Washington, would they?
>> Look, I think that nobody's parsing
through all of these details right now.
Yes, you are correct. Right now, it
seems uh kind of comical or light to
think about $2.4 4 billion of a
renovation that was summed up from some
1.9 billion back in 2019 when you're
talking about, you know, $3.5 trillion
hole in the budget deficit. Trump wants
also options just on the table and he is
just trying to undermine at the end of
the day the Fed chair's credibility even
if he decides he's not going to fire
them. Part of that is because also I'm
really struck by this Gallup poll about
how the Fed chair is at a low when it
comes to confidence with the American
people and Trump is just needling at
that a little bit and today's
performance will be part of that.
>> The pressure keeps building. Speaking of
pressure, look at this from the
Financial Times. At least $1 billion
worth of Nvidia's advanced artificial
intelligence processors were shipped to
China in the 3 months after Donald Trump
tightened chip export controls. That
dropping from the Financial Times just
moments ago. So this is concerning if
especially that China is getting their
hands on these high advanced chips that
the United States was really having
these export controls and trying to hold
on to. My question though here seeing
the dynamic play out in person between
Jensen Wang and the president yesterday
on the trip to the Middle East. Was the
administration aware of this and they're
sort of turning a blind eye. Jensen Wang
has been having these conversations with
the president and he is really the
reason why they decided to make this
U-turn when it comes to the H20 chips.
But if not, potentially this is going to
be meaning Jensen Wag is going to get at
the crosshairs of this administration.
>> It also goes to the whole idea of trans
shipping and transnational uh
interference and exactly where these
chips were going through because this
would be the B200 chip. This isn't the
HU 20 chip. And this actually speaks to
what actually went into the deepseek
moment. And that will go to a lot of
questions that people have about how
advanced they've gotten and is it on the
heels of US technology.
>> Remember that phrase that came out of
Nvidia at the time, export compliant.
Was it was it export compliant?
>> This is a great question and how is it
going to be enforced at a time where
there's a lot of funability and a lot of
moving uh parts on the rules side of
things.
>> Stock is up at a pre-market by about one
full percentage point. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Blimpo brief. Here's Yahira.
Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. We start with some other Nvidia
news. President Trump said he considered
breaking up the company to increase
competition in AI chips but changed his
mind because it would be hard according
to him. At the White House AI summit,
Trump praised CEO Jensen Wong. While
Wong commended the president's AI
approach, saying America's unique
advantage that no other country can have
is President Trump. Meanwhile, Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant says he plans to
bring up the Microsoft SharePoint hack
with Chinese officials when they meet in
Stockholm next week. Cyber security firm
I security says the flaw in Microsoft's
SharePoint software hit 400 global
organizations including both US nuclear
and health agencies. Microsoft blames
Chinese statebacked hackers and you
talked about this one air earlier.
American Airline shares are falling 3.8%
in the pre-market. The company reported
second quarter earnings that beat
analyst estimates and it also reinstated
its fullear guidance. But it said
possible scenarios range from an
adjusted loss of 20 cents a share to a
profit of as much as 80 cents. American
also forecast a third quarter loss
exceeding analyst estimates. Dr.
Bloomberg John
>> Yhara. Thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next 15 is the
new 10.
>> We're going to have a very very simple
tariff for some of the countries. a
straight simple tariff of anywhere
between 15 and 50%.
>> Up next, Libby Canrell of PIMCO live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Equities
just about positive by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500 after closing out another
record high in yesterday's session. Up
by a third this morning on the Nasdaq.
Check out the euro 60 minutes from now.
Call it 59. We'll hear from the ECB
looking for them to hit pause after
cutting interest rates by hundreds of
basis points over the last 12 months.
What's 1750 on Euro dollar?
>> Yeah. And how much do they indicate that
they are ready to pick up rate cutting
at some point with one more rate cut?
That really is going to be the question.
The other question I have is how do they
project out some sort of growth
trajectory now with 15% being the floor
for tariffs? Not the 10% that they had
baked in as their base case.
>> Do they push back against some of that
euro strength as well? I wonder.
>> Yeah. Is it becoming increasingly
complicated? Wasn't that the word that
they used? what they usually do. If
you're the ECB president, you say
something like, "We don't target foreign
exchange, but it has implications for
our price stability mandate." That's how
you navigate that issue.
>> Thank you. Are you ready?
>> I imagine that maybe they'll do a
version of that later on this afternoon.
>> We heard from them before saying it's
getting complicated once it reaches 120.
Well, we're getting pretty close. And if
you look at the targets, what Jordan
Rochester 122?
>> Yep,
>> there we are.
>> 11750 on Euro dollar under Savannah this
morning. As Lisa said 15 is the new 10.
>> We're going to have a very very simple
tariff for some of the countries have so
many countries you can't negotiate deals
with everyone. So we'll have a straight
simple tariff of anywhere between 15 and
50%. A couple we have 15 because we
haven't been getting along with those
countries too well. So we just say let's
pay 50 and uh that's the way it is.
>> It's the latest this morning. President
Donald Trump suggesting tariff rates
will not go below 15% as the EU is said
to be inching toward a trade agreement
ahead of the August 1st deadline.
Bloomberg's a Garter joins us now for
more. Aa, welcome back to the program.
Just where will we be in a few weeks
time?
>> Well, it seems like the gold post is
moving regardless. We're seeing
President Trump now say the floor is now
15%. That's up from 10%. But we
understand that the EU, which is still a
trade deal that we're waiting on here,
is inching closer to a deal that would
see them at that 15% level, including
for automobiles. That's down from 30%, a
tariff that Trump threatened not too
long ago. And they badly want to secure
this before August 1st, which is the day
that the administration says that they
will impose tariffs and start collecting
that revenue. But the real caution here
is this comes all down to President
Donald Trump, who's the ultimate
decision maker. He is hard to predict
when it comes to which way he will go.
He has also been incredibly critical of
the EU and its relationship with the US
when it comes to trade. So, we're going
to have to see if he's okay with again
this floor level. But, the EU is
preparing counter measures in case they
cannot reach a deal with the US. We knew
that this is something that they
threatened back in April when the US
first imposed these reciprocal tariffs
and those could target American cars,
Boeing, bourbon, whiskey, some really
key American imports.
>> Calagana with the latest down in
Washington. Aa, thank you. With us
around the table, Libby Cantrol of
Pimco. Libby, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> August 1st, are we going to wrap this up
or is that the new July 9th?
>> Uh, yeah. Yeah, I mean look, I think
what we've been telling our clients is
that we are going to be living with
trade policy and tariff policy
uncertainty for the duration of this
administration. So maybe we get a little
bit more clarity. I would agree that 15%
is the new 10%, 10% is the new 0%. Uh
kind of the the best that a country can
hope for uh those with trade surpluses
is going to be 10%. And then everything
else is going to be higher. I mean Japan
got I think arguably a pretty good a
pretty good deal here. But again, if you
just look if we just take a step back
and go back to December right after the
election and we were just saying we're
going to be sitting here and talking
about how 15% seems pretty benign on one
of our closest allies and trading
partners. Um I don't think anybody would
believe it. So I think that the Overton
window, if you will, has really been
expanded here, kind of shattered in
terms of what is acceptable in the
markets and in Washington. And again, I
think from an economic and markets
perspective, we do think this will start
having a bite at some point, even though
um maybe markets are are just, you know,
willfully ignoring the reality here.
>> Or are the markets numb? Has Trump
basically conditioned them to accept 15%
because they're not as the sky-high
April 2nd tariffs originally this
administration came out with?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think you know what we
have been talking to our clients every
the sort of like the taco man versus
tariff man. You know, this idea of Trump
always chickening out. And if you
actually look at the tariff level right
now, it would not suggest that he is
chickenening out yet. Yes, he has
softened his most extreme stance. So,
will the effective average tariff rate
go up to 30%. Not not likely. But where
we think it probably will land is
between 15 and 20%. 15 and 20% tariff. I
mean, that's, you know, that's not
insignificant. So yes, I do think that
in some ways again this idea of you know
the Overton window sort of what's
possible in Washington he's expanded
that so much um that that the market is
somewhat desensitized but we really we
do think this will start having actually
real economic effects at some point
>> when it comes to these negotiations. I
was really struck by the Japanese one
because of that $550 billion fund. And
I'm still kind of confused about exactly
what it is because the prime minister of
Japan is talking about that these are
basically loan guarantees and Howard
Lutnik, the commerce secretary, is
saying it's much much more than that.
Almost sounds like a bit of a slush
fund. Do you understand what the
administration is looking for when it
comes to trading partners?
>> Yeah, I think well I mean we are we are
like everybody else is waiting for for
the details. I mean I think a couple of
things on this one is that um you know
for a for another country to be funding
our industrial policy that could
actually have some implications. Um so I
think there's there's one of just sort
of is this sort of politically realistic
that you're actually relying on another
country uh to actually make investments
in things that are you know important
from a national security or from from a
economic perspective for for the
country. The other which is a little bit
technical and a little bit wonky but I
think also important is if if the
objective for the the administration is
to reduce the trade deficit you can't
reduce the trade deficit with a country
and increase the capital account and
those things are supposed to be offset.
So um you know I think that you're
they're trying to have kind of both ways
here. So we'll we'll sort of see what
the details are. Um I think you know our
you know our suggestion to our clients
is just to focus on what we do know
though which is the 15% tariffs. Again,
that's that's an increase from the 3%
that we had in January.
>> You have you have the joy and the
opportunity of going around the world
and explaining this to everybody. And
I'm curious how different the reaction
is for people not in the US versus the
United States and how they plan to sort
of operate around that.
>> Yeah, I was just I was just saying
before before the before the segment
that I was in Canada yesterday meeting
with some of our large institutional
clients. I've been all, you know, all
over the world. We have the benefit of
having longstanding relationships with
clients. um you know again outside of
the US and inside the US and the
perspective is different you know I
think that um you know some ways there's
there's asymmetry around the information
uh so I think there's some assumptions
that are made that maybe are not
necessarily uh right uh for our for our
foreign clients but I think more
importantly you know our clients were
already overindexed to sort of US
equities to US dollarbased assets coming
into this year right the sort of the
narrative of American exceptionalism uh
the expectation for you know just
blockbuster growth in the US and sort of
languishing growth elsewhere come you
know in in January that obviously has
changed those expectations have changed
so our clients in some ways were already
re-evaluating some of their dollar-based
asset allocation and I think this
probably has accelerated that um
certainly the tariffs I think again
maybe they're impervious to that maybe a
little bit more desensitized some of the
knocks on the Fed some of the questions
about the strength of the institutions
um sort of the you know the political um
you know functionality of of Washington.
I think those all are still question
questions front in terms of their in
their minds.
>> You know, Sam Zeie of of JP Morgan
Private Bank was on earlier and he said
initially people just work in the
derivatives market to hedge their dollar
exposure,
>> but the actual reallocation happens over
time. Is that something that you're
seeing too that there's a lot of
reallocation away from dollar to
denominated assets in the pipeline that
hasn't fully come to the four yet?
>> Yeah, I would say with our clients, we
are seeing exactly that. We're seeing
them this sort of t being taken out in
the FX market you know hedging their
dollar based exposure and you know you
know broadly speaking there was some
discussion around the tax bill there was
a section 8.99 the revenge tax which was
definitely I think would have had some
significant implications on actual asset
allocation um I think now they are um
maybe sort of taking a step back and and
not necessarily divesting from the US
but I think sort of maybe hitting the
hitting the a little bit more of the
pause button in terms of you new
allocation new allocations to yes but of
course it's it's different for every
client so I don't want to sort of
generalize but um I do think that there
is you know more of just a reevaluation
of some of their dollar based assets
>> Libby it's good to see you as always
thanks for being here Libby Cantrol
there of PIM codes pick up on Libbyy's
earlier point if you think 15% is
chickening out then you've been played
and you don't even realize because he
set expectations to the extreme so far
that you're willing to accept something
that bad
>> maybe he won right because right now the
market's accepting it and the market has
essentially said we can live with And so
the ultimate question is what would it
take how high is the bar for the market
to feel differently?
>> Up next on the program we'll catch up
with AJ Radjaka of Barclays with
President Trump planning a rare visit to
the Federal Reserve. Plus we'll catch up
with Danny Burgerer with your morning
movers as the Max 7 kick off with some
mixed results. Tesla down 6% Alphabet up
by close to four. From New York City,
this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Three days of gains on the S&P 500. The
longest daily winner streak of the month
so far. Looking to add some weight to it
this morning. Up by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P with two hours from the open and
bell. Let's get you some morning movers
with Danny Ber. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. We're getting the big tech
earnings trickling in. Yesterday after
the bell, it was Alphabet that had
really strong AI demand. But to keep up
with that demand, their capital
expenditures, $85 billion, 10 billion
more than they had originally estimated
when that number came out for shares
dropped. They reversed though, really
just talking about that strong demand
for AI. 3.6% is where we stand. To the
downside, there is Tesla this morning.
The quarter itself was a difficult one.
The worst fall in revenue in over a
decade. Free cash flow evaporated. But
it wasn't Elon Musk that tried to frame
a company as one in transition from EVs
to autonomous driving, saying that in
that transition, there'd be a few rough
quarters ahead. Shares down 6% this
morning. Also heard from IBM after the
close yesterday. The focus was on their
software unit and their growth in sales
also disappointed. The hope was is that
AI features, AI tools, quantum computing
would help lift it up. Unfortunately,
the bar was high and the company didn't
make it. management there saying that
they would have more AI revenue to come.
Evercore though skeptical that software
sales can continue at pace into the
second half. Shares down 6%. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour on our radar this morning. One
of our top stories, President Donald
Trump floating a tariff law of 15% on US
trading partners, saying his so-called
reciprocal tariff rates will fall
between 15 and 50 percentage points as
countries race to make deals before the
August 1st deadline.
>> And the market's accepting it. So right
now if he was looking for something to
hold him back, well, he's not getting
that from the markets. This is
definitely something that is being
welcomed as a relief. And I do wonder
whether the relief from certainty is
enough to overcome what the
ramifications of a 15% floor to tariff
rates actually means economically.
>> We've talked about it all morning. We
know the rates in some places. Do we
fully understand the consequences? So
far, we don't. Got to be open-minded
about how this plays out. But will
growth slow? Will inflation firm? Will
the Fed's easing bias be complicated
going into next year?
>> Well, the difficult aspect with this is
just on an absolute basis maybe, right?
Just if you look at one side of the
equation and then the other, you could
understand why there would be a
cyclflationary tilt to this. But then
you overlay that with AI investment some
of the other uh sort of secular themes
and it becomes very difficult to make
that blanket statement which is reason
why people have been surprised by the
resilience of the economic data so far.
Also, the Treasury Secretary said
yesterday that if Trump is unhappy, say
with a country like Japan, the rate can
go back up from 15% to 25%. So, how do
you even plan for that future,
especially when he is a self-described
yesterday uh negotiator junkie, he said,
a deal junkie. So, he constantly wants
to be in negotiating mode. So, who's to
say by August 1st, even if they have
these deals done like with the European
Union, which seems to be next in line,
that it's going to end?
>> Libby Kendra said the same thing of
Pimco just moments ago. Get used to it.
We're going to be doing this for the
next several years. Let's take a look at
Tesla this morning. Shares are lower.
The CEO Elon Musk warning of quote rough
quarters ahead, saying the EV maker
would be in a transition period for the
next year or so. His comments coming
after the company posted one of the
worst quarters in over a decade.
>> The more he talked, the more the shares
went down. This was a disaster of a of a
earnings release. And some people
dismiss all of his earnings release
calls as we heard from Dan Ives. It's
just this is what he does. That said,
real questions about bringing forward
production of the more expensive
vehicles, holding off on potentially
creating that more affordable kind,
making it just basically a stripped down
Model Y. Real questions also about his
leadership going forward. Uh how much is
the onus shifting from a dream stock to
one rooted a little bit more in reality
when it comes to what's going on in
terms of also how he's dealing with
policy in Washington? Not even the
personnel issue of no longer being the
first buddy and obviously the acrimony
between him and the president of United
States. the one big beautiful bill
calling back those EV tax credits and
the CF CFO yesterday putting the cost of
tariffs on the company saying it
increased to around $300 million a third
of impact hittering the battery division
of course these batteries coming from
places like China
>> it's real money stock is down by close
to 6% in the pre-market let's talk about
the airlines Southwest cutting it 2025
outlook expected to take a $1 billion
profit hit due to tariff uncertainty
elsewhere at American Airlines beating
on earnings and reinstating his annual
forecast with a wide range of minus 20
to 80 cents per share.
>> So, both of them trying to quantify the
potential ramifications from tariffs.
You saw Southwest trying to say that
they're going to lose as much as $1
billion off its annual pre-tax profit
this year. Then you have American coming
out and yes, they have this really wide
range, but what's notable is how
different their tone is than United and
Delta. United, Delta, stability,
strength, recovery. Maybe we're
underestimating the optimism. American
corporate travel generally flat uh
doesn't have much large capex in 2026.
Third quarter more difficult with a
bigger than expected adjusted loss being
expected now in their forecast. Just not
the same kind of picture which speaks to
execution, client base and how much is
really baked into the premium versus the
rest of the cabin.
>> You nailed it. Execution. Americans had
a problem for a while now. That problem
seems to be persisting
>> which is the reason why they're being
held to a higher bar and the reason why
you're seeing the shares lower even
after reinstating their earnings
expectations.
>> That's the latest on American Airlines
this morning. Let's turn to the Federal
Reserve. The Trump administration piling
the pressure on Fed chair J Pal.
>> The president said he is not going to
fire Chair Powell. would do Chair Powell
a favor and he would be doing the
institution a favor. Uh if the if he did
an internal review mission creep from
the Fed is endangering their
independence of monetary policy.
>> President Trump making a rev visit to
the Federal Reserve this afternoon to
see the $2.5 billion renovation. AJ Raja
Jaka of Barclays writing, "Concerns
about Fed independence persist but we
expect status quo to prevail." AJ joins
us now for more. AJ, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> This market is shaking off a lot.
Threats to Fed independence, trade
tariffs, threats, actual tariffs. Can
this economy keep shaking it off? Yeah,
I I think as long as you don't get a
policy mistake out of Washington on the
magnitude of actually trying to fire the
Fed chair, which I don't think will
happen, I think we are past the worst of
it and we are looking forward to a big,
you know, big boost in growth over the
next few quarters.
>> So, this is really important because
some people still fear that the worst of
the data is ahead of us. What gives you
confidence?
>> The fact that there have been virtually
no second order effects. Now, remember,
I agree with your previous guest Libby
made the point that there have been
substantial tariffs. If you had told me
we are at 2 and a half% entering the
year, we finish at 1718, I would have
been shaken. But part of the reason I
would have been shaken is that because I
would have expected business investment
to pull back. I would have expected
consumer precautionary savings to go up.
Fact of the matter is, John, none of
those things have happened. And that's
to do with the, you know, if they were
going to happen, they were going to
happen with the headlines. They were not
going to happen when it actually plays
out. It's very, very hard for me to see
big new second order effects now. the
consumer pulling back hard and without
that you do not get a lasting like a
recession a lasting hit to US growth.
Are we measuring the economy correctly?
And I asked that because there is there
are pockets that are clearly suffering
and you're seeing that in numbers like
from Southwest where consumers who don't
have as much money aren't able to travel
as much. But then you have this
industrial revolution, this renaissance,
this huge investment in AI technology
that's generating efficiency and
profitability at the biggest and the
most powerful companies and individuals.
Is this showing up in the data or is
this just changing the way we understand
our economy?
>> I think it's the latter. I think we are
measuring it correctly. There's no
reason to believe that we've suddenly
changed. The fact of the matter is what
you said. The United States is two
different economies. One is the old
economy. You know, we all grew up
believing housing is the business cycle
for example. And you know, housing is
struggling with mortgage rates staying
where they are. You the dutable goods
sector. You know, you mentioned
airlines. They are struggling. Doesn't
matter. You have the large tech side and
the AI dividends starting to kick in and
I think that matters far more at an
index level at an economywide level. The
fact that the hyperscalers just never
pull back on spending. You know, you
might have worried as as an importer
into the United States about Mexico,
Canada, whether I can make my business
work or not. Who cares when Google is
spending another $85 billion at at a
macro level?
>> Well, at the same time, back during the
pandemic, it was sort of the revenge of
the physical world. That was something
that John said every morning as we
walked in and it was sort of the reality
of trying to get toilet paper although
he had stacked up. I am just wondering
whether we're going to end up with
revenge of the physical world once more.
We're talking about investment in the
cloud in all of this sort of uh
technology that's for companies the way
we think the way we do work in white
collar businesses. What about the goods
and services that have to go on on
ships? I
>> I don't think there's going to be
adventure of the physical world. I
almost think it's the other way around.
Meaning that right now we are all
focused on LLMs. You know you put in
text and you get out a bunch of
information that is the AI models and
that we think will hit services jobs.
The fact of the matter is I think we are
3 4 5 years away from the same thing
happening where you put in a bunch of
texts and you have a robot doing
subtasks. I'm not kidding. This is not
sci-fi. This you know this is I feel the
way I did about Nvidia 5 years ago. You
know none of us thought it would get as
big as it is. But the fact of the matter
is, you know, that that M's law, you
know, the fact that things are twice as
cheap, every 18 months they're twice as
powerful, does work in the semiconductor
world, doesn't work in the physical
world. Fusing AI and robotics is
powerful. And I almost worry that you're
going to have more of the profits
continue to go to capital. We always
grew up believing, you know, plumbers,
you'll always need plumbers. Well, you
might not 5, 7, 8 years from now. what
you're saying could ultimately mean the
market is okay but the employment market
gets a whole lot worse.
>> It does. And
>> are there limits to that?
>> Uh the limits are put in by society. At
some point if you there are 70 million
knowledge workers in the United States.
You know I have had this a person I
consider the single best investor of all
time make the argument to me that he's
looked at this upwards downwards five
ways from side you know Sunday and he's
telling me that 10 million of these
workers will not be needed in 5 to 7
years. He's not saying they won't have
jobs. The economic activity that they do
now, the value ad will be done by
machines. We see it in big tech, right?
40% of coding. You you realize
Microsoft's let go of 20,000 people.
They have money coming out of their
ears. There's a reason why that this is
happening. Eventually, society pushes
back. It's happened in every
technological revolution. But the
difference now, John, is that in the
past when you had had this, right? We
were okay with debtor's prisons. We were
okay with child. Well, 100 years ago,
you know, the the transition we didn't
make noise. this time it'll make a lot
of noise.
>> I'll share with you what concerns me and
I'll be open and personal about it. For
children of Thatcher and Reagan, I'm
highly concerned that if you concentrate
capital and wealth in the hands of just
a few, that the political movement, the
corrective course of action on behalf of
the people will be for the state to get
a whole lot bigger,
>> to go forward with higher taxes,
universal basic income. And for people
like me who don't really believe
ideologically in that view of the world,
that scares the living daylights out of
me. It should, but that is a very real
risk. Now, until we get there, you're
going to have corporate earnings flat
flatten, you know, for years to come.
You're going to have operating margin
leverage. And then the other side of it
will be society pushing back. It's
happened before. I mean, you know, six
of the seven big oil majors came out of
one company, Standard Oil. remember you
know so this is not every every 15 20 50
years if you have a big technology
change where all the advantages go to
capital which is what is going to happen
I think eventually society will push
back but until it happens it's actually
a very nice ride
>> but building on John's point should we
just expect higher deficits then
>> no I think the so the the the the OBBA
and the tariffs from revenues the total
deficit from that is not higher than if
just the Trump assets that were expiring
had been extended and we all thought
they would be extended if nothing else
right the problem the reason why the
long bond in the United States refuses
to come below 5% is not because the OBBA
is more proflegate it's because it locks
in it makes it clear that we are not
going to go away from 6 and a half to 7%
deficits which is where we were this
year last year for at least 10 more
years you you know you mentioned Rachel
Reeves and and the conversation from 3
weeks ago the significant part was not
that she got emotional in in person. The
significant part for me was Labor has a
big parliamentary majority and cannot
pass a simple change, a small change to
the welfare bill. That was the
significance of it. There's no political
will.
>> AJ, appreciate your time. Enjoy the ride
in the market right now seems to be the
message and we'll catch up in 5 years
time.
>> Cheers AJ. Thank you. Can I just say
yesterday I was speaking with someone
who headed employee engagement for
artificial intelligence at one of the
biggest companies in this country and
frankly in the world and what they were
saying is they had been doing this for
40 years looking at changes in
technology. They have never seen
anything like this and it changes every
single day. That was a pretty stunning
statement.
>> I hope my fears don't play out. I hope
I'm wrong. I think you want freedom and
upward mobility and people might say
that sounds super cliche. Look, that's
what I believe in personally. You might
believe in something else. I fear what
would come down the road if AJ's view of
things plays out
>> especially because you've got agents
talking to each other discussing how to
make things better and exing out the
human altogether and guess what humans
tend not to be that efficient we have
desires we want to go to the bathroom we
want to talk with our friends we want to
let our minds wander AI agents don't
have that problem and so at a certain
point yeah you've got better efficiency
but if someone's going to be a pain in
the neck why do you need them
>> enjoy the ride futures positive stocks
at alltime highs let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your bloom brief. Here's Yahira.ra. Hey,
Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. Staying on artificial
intelligence, the Trump administration
unveiled its AI action plan meant to
boost development in the US by loosening
regulations and growing power supplies
for data centers. Measures include
addressing energy and permitting issues
for infrastructure and the promotion of
AI exports as President Trump says the
US will lead the world in AI. Meanwhile,
Chipotle shares are plunging 11.7% in
the pre-market. The company cut its
annual outlook for the second time this
year, saying sales at established
restaurants will be about flat after
previously forecasting a low singledigit
expansion. Its new honey chicken
offering and burrito giveaways failed to
bring enough customers through the door.
And Goldman Sachs has decided against
the second round of performance-based
job cuts this year. The Financial Times
reporting the bank made the decision
following a better thanex expected
recovery in investment banking and
continued strength in its trading
division. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Up next on the
program, a new standard for AI.
>> From this day forward, it'll be a policy
of the United States to do whatever it
takes to lead the world in artificial
intelligence.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Chris Casso
of Wolf Research live from New York.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
30 minutes from now, an ECB rate
decision. 15 minutes after that. So at
8:30 Eastern time, jobless claims, all
of that still to come in the next hour
or so. Equity futures positive by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ
100, doing okay, up by a third. Under
Sylvanas this morning, a new standard
for AI.
From this day forward, it'll be a policy
of the United States to do whatever it
takes to lead the world in artificial
intelligence. America is the country
that started the AI race. And as
president of the United States, I'm here
today to declare that America is going
to win it. We're going to work hard.
We're going to win it. Here's the latest
this morning. President Donald Trump
signing executive orders to boost AI
development in the US. The plan includes
loosening regulations and expanding
energy supplies for data centers.
Bloomberg's Ed Lllo joined us now for
more. Ed, that was quite an event. What
stood out for you?
>> Yeah, it's it's really a question of
what is actionable within the action
plan, right? You talked about
deregulation, but at all of those
pillars of it, basically expediting
permitting both so that mega cap tech,
hyperscalers can build data centers
faster, but the energy components really
critical. Basically, all of the cabinet
members that spoke and the president
himself framed this in the context of
what China is doing. China moves very
fast and aggressively to ramp up its
supply of energy largely through coal
powered um power plants, but sourcing
electricity nonetheless. And you know
the executives on the ground and the
officials that I spoke to all basically
agree that all America wants to do is be
able to move faster and now seems more
sanguin about exporting technology
globally including to economic
adversaries which is a big change not
just in tone but in policy position
right from where we were at the
beginning of the year let alone in the
last four years.
>> Ed who's driving that change the state
department or the Nvidia CEO?
Yeah, it was a very interesting moment.
I mean, Amry and I discussed it whether
Jensen Wong is now the first buddy or
not. Uh there's a cautionary tale in
that of course uh with Elon Musk about
the relationship with the president. But
I would also point out something that
was missed. The president asked Mr.
Zelden from the EPA to stand up and said
that of everyone gathered he was the
most important person in the room even
though he also invited Jensen Wong to
have a standing a prompted standing
ovation because it will fall to Mr. and
the EPA to enact this kind of cutting of
red tape and the expedited permitting
process that that basically underpins
all of the big picture pledge that's in
the document.
>> We need the energy. We need tons of it.
>> You know, kudos to the administration to
be completely honest for really
analyzing what's needed and to
understand what the sort of landscape is
and to investigate it and highlight it
because from every economic uh
individual comes on the show, they
highlight this as well.
>> Ed, thank you sir. Ed Lllo down in
Washington DC this morning. Chris Casso
of Wol Research has an outperform rating
on Nvidia with a 170 price target and he
joins us now. Chris, welcome back to the
program. A lot of people come on this
program and act as if it's just winner
takes all. This one name takes all. Are
there other names that are doing well in
this theme as well?
Yeah. And um you know I we we still
think Nvidia is the best way to play AI
uh because so many of the concerns that
were had at the beginning of the year
have now gone and and clearly they're
the leader. Um with regard to the other
the other way that that we like to play
it is within with memory as well because
uh the HBM memory that goes along with
uh with AI chips, the Nvidia chips, the
custom chips are a big driver as well.
There's a big inflection point coming in
2027 for that and and we think Micron uh
in our coverage is a a prime beneficiary
of that as well. Meanwhile, we got this
reporting out of the Financial Times
today, and I do wonder how much the
regulatory uh problems are going to get
in get th sort of throw some sand in the
in the gears that at least a billion
dollars worth of Nvidia chips that were
of the highest order had been shipped to
China in the 3 months after some of the
constraints had been put in place by the
Trump administration. How concerned are
you about some sort of crackdown or
additional caps or bans by this
administration and how it affects
semiconductors?
>> Well, of course, it was just a a couple
weeks ago that uh the administration
reversed the ban on the H20, the chip
that had been uh uh uh Nvidia had been
uh permitted to ship into China again
back in April. They stopped that and now
in July they've actually allowed that
again. And we think that's a sensible
policy because the the the chip that
that is uh permitted to be sold in China
is designed to be equal to what China
can do themselves. So the concept there
is that you still restricting China.
They can't get the best technology but
yet you're not pushing the Chinese
customers to buy local that you still
allow them to buy US technology in
Nvidia. And we think that's the best
technology. Now smuggling is always
going to be an issue. people are going
to figure out a way of getting it. But
um you know actually in AI a billion
dollars is actually a small fraction of
of uh what what the uh the large market
is right now. So actually a billion
dollars is not as big of a number in AI
these days.
>> Trump last night described the
government support for AI as a national
security priority to prevent allies
turning to rival technology. Not as a
national security priority to prevent
our chips going around the world but for
partners to look elsewhere i.e. China.
How do they balance the two?
>> Well, and and you know, there's an
important point too with regard to
China, and that's the restrictions that
we have in place in Chinese
manufacturing. So, Huawei is the Chinese
leader in AI, but they're also
restricted in where they can manufacture
their chips. Huawei can't go to TSMC and
and and manufacture, you know, unlike
Nvidia, unlike AMD. So, that already
puts China at a disadvantage. In
addition, the US companies and and
frankly you know all the companies ASML
included are restricted in what they can
sell into China. So from a manufacturing
standpoint we already have some
restrictions which you know kind of
constrain what happens in China. But but
again, you know, I I I think in terms of
promoting US technology, uh, you know, a
two-pronged approach is probably the
right way is restricting what can be
produced in China and then promoting,
you know, the the the US solutions such
as Nvidia
>> with the administration now making this
U-turn from April on the H20 Nvidia
chip. What's the new negotiating chip
they have in their hands when they sit
across from their Chinese counterparts
next week?
uh with regard to the broader trade
discussions.
>> Yeah. Do they have something that the
Chinese really want when it comes to
export controls and semiconductors that
they can use as a negotiating tactic?
>> Well, again, the the you know, one would
be, as I said, the the uh uh the
equipment that that's used to make the
chips. Uh I I don't expect that to be
the case. And I think that it's still
going to be policy that we're still
going to restrict what China can uh what
we can sell to China to make chips
internally. So my guess would be that
the chips that would be on the table, if
you will, would probably be outside of
semiconductors in terms of, you know,
the negotiating.
>> Hey Chris, appreciate your time. Thanks
for breaking it down. Chris Castle there
of Wolf Research on Nvidia and a whole
lot more. That company, that CEO is in
the driving seat.
>> He seems to be, as Amarie said, setting
policy at a time when that really is the
ultimate American exceptionalism. Just
think about it. Who's driving who given
the fact that that is the ultimate
driver of so much of the optimism around
the US economy? Stocks at record highs,
futures positive. Up next, Tom Kennedy
of JP Morgan Asset Management, Puja
Camra of TD Securities, Nila Richardson
of ADP, and Terry Weisman of McQuary.
Just moments away, an ECB rate decision,
and later jobless claims from New York.
The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance. Up next.
[Music]
>> We're looking at the riskier parts of
the market. They can't get much better
than this.
>> Technology companies driven by
artificial intelligence is going to be
where you get your earnings growth this
quarter.
>> On the whole, things are quite nice, but
the fact is there are a lot of potholes.
The pullback would be healthy. With
continued clarity on tariffs, we've got
a a calmer market hopefully.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Okay, so this hour a busy one at about
15 minutes time, an ECB rate decision.
15 minutes after that, jobless claims in
America 8:30 Eastern time. And then
later, you'll hear from the ECB
president Christine Lagard. into all of
that. Futures just about positive by a
tenth of 1% coming off all-time highs on
the S&P 500. And we add some weight to
the NASDAQ. Positive this morning by
0.3.
>> Futures are dancing to their own music.
And it doesn't have to do with tariffs.
It has to do with the fact that they
don't have to think about tariffs as
much because maybe we've got a little
bit of certainty. And we've got earnings
that have been pretty positive,
particularly from some of the
magnificent six. And I say magnificent
six because Tesla is the outlier here.
But when it comes to AI innovation, that
was just doubled down on by Google and
that certainly is helping to fuel what
we're seeing this morning.
>> Earnings decent. Earnings decent for
most of these players. Will the data
hold up? 8:30 Eastern time. Jobless
claims 226,000 the estimate in our
survey. We're around the 220s at the
moment and we've hung in there. The
data's been okay. Will it stay that way
through the summer?
>> What if it does, right? Then does
everybody who has been was pessimistic
and talking about the ramifications from
tariffs called chicken littles and
rejected kicked to the curb said you're
just a big bear get over yourself let's
get on the bullish train and how much is
it just going to be delayed that much
further and I think that that really is
the ultimate question have we just
extended the timeline or have we
suddenly overimposed something that is
much more positive on an otherwise
pretty negative uh narrative earlier
this year
>> I talked about an interesting hour
coming up I left this out later on this
afternoon the president visits the
Federal Reserve, a tour of HQ.
>> He's going right to the doorstep of Jay
Powell, who he's been job voting for
months now. And this really comes down
to not this argument that just the Fed,
he's annoyed they're not cutting
interest rates, but the fact that this
administration has been really going
after the Federal Reserve for being
overbudget when it comes to their
renovations. And we know that officials
were going to take this visit. We didn't
know until last night that the president
himself was going to join it. This is
going to be a lot of theater and a lot
of drama. theater, that's the word.
Drama, that's another word. Will it
actually move its market in any way,
shape, or form?
>> It seems like every time President Trump
mentions Fed chair Jay Powell now and
calls him stupid, do nothing, too slow,
the market's going la because they have
moved on and we've heard from Scott
Besson, who seems to be much more of a
directing hand, saying we're in no hurry
to replace him and he doesn't need to
step down.
>> A series of all-time highs in this
equity market. This stock market has
moved on. Coming up this hour, Tom
Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset Management
following a fresh record high. Puja
Kumra of TD Securities with an ECB rate
decision just around the corner. And
Terry Wisman of Mcquaryy on the impact
of tariffs on global interest rates. We
begin this out with stocks notching a
fresh record high. Tom Kennedy of JP
Morgan Asset Management writing earnings
are surprising to the upside, but the
rally is mostly a PE expansion story.
Tom joins us now for more. Tom, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Forward multiple elevated north of 20
has been for a while. anything to worry
about?
>> Um, I do think there's a statement of
pause here, right? We have to see these
earnings come through. So far, we're two
weeks into earning season. You're seeing
surprises to the upside and wide breath
of surprise. So, it is a positive in
there, but you're pushing up against the
limit where how much can the earnings
actually deliver for you? I think we've
had a great run. I think investors
should feel good about that and start to
look around and say, are there other
things that I should be adding to my
portfolio to maybe diversify that
exposure? It's another way of saying you
don't think this continues in the second
half.
>> Look, I think we're we're all in our
business in JP Morgan asset and wealth
management. We're in this to be for the
long run. So like you're going to hear
from people like us that consistently
say that, but you have to add
diversification when you have these
great runs there.
>> What is diversification? I was looking
at a note from HSBC that said that you
have to reexamine what diversification
means and increasingly it means the euro
and gold. Is that how you see it? Uh I
think diversification can have many
faces but to the point I think that
they're trying to make is
diversification in the pre-COVID era may
be different in this era and when you
have a low interest rate environment
bonds become an excellent diversifier
and it's simple you just add the
Barclays a to a portfolio why do you do
that well if you're fighting inflation
below 2% any growth scare means rates
come down but now in inflation across
the world whether it be in Europe
whether it be in the US has inflation
upside risk and you need new
diversifiers. So, what do they look
like? Gold for sure. Also, real assets,
things like real estate and
infrastructure, because those will
nominally reset if inflation surprises
you to the upside.
>> Do you ever get clients saying to you,
you've been talking about
diversification
and you've missed out because ultimately
it's been a one-way train up and you
have all this discussion about
artificial intelligence is going to
deliver me the world and it's going to
really consolidate it into the capital
holders. So, why are you still telling
me this? Yes, you we consistently get
that recency argument. Um but we don't
have to have that recency argument as
big right now in that we we did have a
shock. This year has been we did have a
20% correction. It wasn't or nearly a
20%.
>> It was very short-lived for sure. But
volatility in the market is there. So
recency bias doesn't feel as strong.
That argument before CO was even harder
to deal with. I'm I have this
diversification on income but rates are
so low and my income stream is so low. I
I think it was harder then. Now I think
it's a uh clients are more engaged in
the diversification conversation.
>> When you're talking about volatility, I
can't think of liberation day on April
2nd. I was there in the Rose Garden. The
market started to rally when it was just
10%. Then the that big chart came out
and then the market started to tank. You
say 15% tariffs are positive apparently.
Has Trump changed the psychology of how
we view tariffs?
>> The look, if we sat here on Liberation
Day and said we're going to settle at a
15% tariff, um I think we would have
felt good. But compared to liberation
day to today, 15% was no one's
expectation. The apparently is the stock
market seems to really be happy about
this. And I think we have to go a little
deeper. If Japan is setting the standard
for what deals will look like, a 15%
tariff is being financed with either
equity or debt from Japan. If Europe
follows up with that, this is not an
isolation or deglobalization story. It's
the tariffs are meant to lock in a
relationship with specific partners. I
think what we're not talking about
enough is the Indonesia deal is very
interesting in that they'll make a deal,
but if goods come through Indonesia and
they have China related to it, that has
a different tariffree. All things are
circling back to there's new uh
relationships that that are being built
and China seems to be left out.
>> A carrot and stick approach. Do you
think we're going to see more deals like
Indonesia or more like Japan?
>> Um I don't know. They're different
economies in that not a lot of goods get
routed from China through Japan the way
that they do for Indonesia. Um Vietnam
will be interesting how that comes
about. But that this relationship about
what's happening with tariffs, the
bigger picture I think is the market's
coming around to it's less about the
tariff and it's more about how this
global the new era of globalization
comes to fruition and it seems to be
less about China and America and more
about America and who else.
>> That's far too nuanced. I think market's
just interested in better or worse and
these numbers are better than they were
on April 2nd. That's it for me. Now we
have to work out the consequences. How
well understood are the consequences?
>> The So I agree with you, but I think the
way we need to get get through that
recency bias is yes, it's better than
25%. But if we look back 2 months ago,
no one thought 15%. So as we've
navigated through this, what has
happened? The economy has held up. Um
pass through to consumers has been slow
so far. uh but if we land on a 15%
tariff we we will have more meaningful
inflationary pass through. I think
nuance is the critical piece of this. It
is very nuanced and the things that I
think we know are the the connection
with China is separating. I think we
know that.
>> Yeah.
>> I think we also know that American
economy is resilient but yet slowing. So
what's the Fed going to do about that?
That's going to be as we head up to se
the September meeting will be critical
discussion.
>> Do you think it complicates the easing
bias at the Fed? The Fed still has an
easing bias. No, I don't. Um, we've been
through this before in Trump 1.0. You
had tariffs and they were able to cut.
When you look at the momentum in the
labor market right now and the US
economy, it is slowing. I I don't really
see any way around that. You look at uh
labor demand and when you look at ADP,
which is giving you really interesting
data. Small and mediumsiz businesses are
contracting their employment. So, and
this is a three or four month trend now.
This is critical data I think the Fed
will look at. Then you can look at
construction spending last six months
contracting. And you can also look at
what's happening in the real estate
market where absorption of industrial
capacity for the first time in Q2 was
negative. What does that mean? There
were more people vacating industrial
space than there were adding industrial
space. That's the first time since 2010.
So the the real high value or high
productive pieces of the economy are
showing you things are slowing. Um I
think the Fed is set up quite well to
start start on some semblance of cuts
whether that be 100 basis points or so
over the next 12 months. So that's the
destination you think maybe three and a
quarter three and a half percent.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. So this raises a question. You
said investing in real assets is
something of uh sort of of a diversifier
and I wonder how you can get excited
about real estate if the only option for
lower rates is a slower economy at a
time where affordability is already an
issue.
>> So I think we talk about affordability a
lot in the single family housing unit
and this is true. Take a three-bedroom
home in America. If you want to buy it,
it's 50% more expensive than if you rent
it. That is a historic spread ever.
Commercial real estate owns this rental
property and there is certainly an
affordability gap, but you Lisa as an
individual get to make a decision. Which
one am I going to do? And if prices come
down, I still want to own the rental.
And if let's say the economy grays
great, I still can push prices and push
rents. The setup for real estate is the
asset commercial real estate has reset
prices over 20%. You can look across the
market. Yeah. So on a relative value
basis, you could stop there and say,
"Oh, it's that's a good setup because
the prices have already contracted. High
interest rates have constricted reply
supply." Um, and yet demand for this
product is only going to pick up in that
housing formation is still happening. So
I think from a commercial real estate
rental perspective, you're better off
than owning that favors owners of multif
family properties.
>> Tom, I'm kind of pick up on this point.
You said Trump won. the Fed was able to
cut even with tariffs, but that was
directed squarely at China. Now it's the
entire world. Don't you think that's a
little bit too optimistic looking back
in the past?
>> No, I don't think so. I mean, I think we
have to take the nuance to this. The
tariffs are a negative in of themselves.
I agree because the consumer is going to
feel higher prices. But what is the goal
of the of the tariff? I think originally
we thought it was just America is going
to be an isolationist economy and I if
we get more of the Japan deal and the
Indonesia deal that's actually not true.
The the tariff is meant to maybe level
the playing field on the relationship.
But now you're getting financing capital
that coming into the economy. The way
that the capital and current accounts
work in America, it has to work this
way. If we're going to import goods, the
financing has to come from somewhere.
And if it's not going to come from
America, it's better to come from
somewhere else.
Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan. A lot to think
about. We've asked this question a few
times. We don't want their exports, we
want their capital. How sustainable is
that situation?
>> Well, it's not necessarily mathematical
feasible. So, you have to create these
sort of instruments to create uh some
mechanism for that to be feasible where
both you are exporting but you're also
getting their investment and how that
offsets each other. You know, it's going
to be complicated and nuanced.
>> The ECB decision about 3 minutes away.
We'll get to that ECB decision in just a
moment. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahihara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. We're just over a week away
from President Trump's August 1st trade
deadline. Last night, the president said
he would set reciprocal tariffs between
15 and 50% for countries who do not make
a deal. The US and EU are moving toward
an agreement that would set a 15% rate.
Trump said the EU can pay a lower rate
if it agrees to open up to American
businesses.
Meanwhile, a check on Tesla shares. They
are falling 6.2% in the pre-market after
the EV maker reported second quarter
results that missed already lowered Wall
Street expectations. Revenue fell 12%,
its sharpest decline in a decade. CEO
Elon Musk warned of a few rough quarters
ahead as Tesla loses EV incentives here
in the US.
And Treasury Secretary Scott Bessett
says he plans to bring up the Microsoft
hack with Chinese officials when they
meet in Stockholm next week. Cyber
security firm I security says the flaw
in the tech giants SharePoint software
hit 400 global organizations including
both US nuclear and health agencies.
Microsoft blames Chinese statebacked
hackers. That's your Bloomberg re John
>> Yhara. Thank you. More from Yahihara in
about 30 minutes. Up next, Pamra of TD
securities with an ECB rate decision
just around the corner. From New York
City, this is Bloomberg
[Music]
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. After cutting
interest rates 200 basis points in the
best part of the last 12 months plus the
ECB hits pause interest rates unchanged.
That decision just dropping 2% on the
deposit rate widely expected in line
with the previous decision.
>> Yeah. And they're not going to precommit
to any particular path. They're going to
take it meeting by meeting and they are
saying that they are determined to
ensure that inflation stabilizes. That
said, there are so many questions. Does
this mean they're done or does this mean
there's one more? and what will it take
for them to really begin cutting rates
again?
>> The news conference 30 minutes away on
the ground in Frankfurt. Bloomberg's
Lizzie Burden. Lizzy, welcome to the
program. Your first takeaway on this
decision this morning and then what to
look for with President Lagard a little
bit later.
>> Well, John, this is exactly what we
expected. All but two economists in our
survey saw a hold coming because they're
waiting for more data. They're waiting
for more forecasts. And crucially, they
want more clarity on trade. They want to
know whether Brussels and Washington can
get that trade deal over the line. And
indeed, our reporting suggests, as Yah
says, it is just around the corner. But
even then, it isn't clear whether
there'll be how many rate cuts there'll
be from here on out. Berberg, RBC, for
example, saying that you wouldn't need
any cuts if they get a 15% deal. But our
economists at Bloomberg Economics saying
you need more cuts in September and
December because 15% is higher than 10%
which is what they saw in June and they
saw one more cut then. But you've got to
throw on the sectoral levies as well as
that. Look, we're half an hour away from
that press conference. I am really
interested to hear what Lagard has to
say when it comes to the euro. I don't
think she's going to be as precise as
Luis de Gindos in saying 120 is the
level that complicates the disinflation
narrative from here. But I really want
to hear how humble she is when it comes
to talking about how good a position the
Euro area economy is in. Because last
meeting in June, to many what she said
sounded like a victory lap. And this
time if she emphasizes the downside
risks to growth, many in the market are
going to take that as a green light to a
September cut.
>> And also the downside risk to inflation
as well, Lizzie, which is something
increasingly they've got to think about.
There's a line in the statement, it's
always there, the governing council is
not precommitting to a particular path.
But just before that, they say the
governing council's interest rate
decisions will be based on its
assessment of the inflation outlook and
the risk surrounding it. in light of the
incoming economic and financial data as
well as the dynamics of underlying
inflation and the strength of monetary
policy transmission. Just reading
between the lines there, Lizzie, what do
you think they're getting at?
>> One of the issues, John, is potential
dumping of Chinese goods into the Euro
area economy and a lot of that will come
down to the talks between China and the
EU. The second thing is, as I say, euro
strength up 13% year to date against the
dollar. And of course, Christine Lagard
in the press conference isn't going to
say that they target the exchange rate,
but they will be minding it as a channel
to influence disinflation. I don't
think, as I say, she'll go as far as
pinpointing a level, but the more she
comes back to that point, the more the
market will be minding it.
>> Lizzie, appreciate the update. Lizzie
Burden there of Bloomberg on the ground
in Frankfurt. That news conference about
25 minutes away. That's got to be the
focus, hasn't it? The disinflationary
shock that could come from excess
capacity in China. One and a euro
strength has been building now for a
number of months too,
>> right? Both competitive disadvantages
for domestic firms. The uh disinflation
coming from China very interesting at a
time where there just was this meeting
between European officials and Chinese
officials. And there clearly is a
resetting an effort to try to come to
some sort of new agreement with this
very much in the forefront. How much are
they going to bear the brunt of all the
goods the over capacity that China has
to sell?
>> Ursula Vandereline is sitting down with
Xi Jinping briefing the press just now
and she's talking about this exactly. We
need to see progress on Chinese over
capacity. I have to say that's a music
to the ears of Scott Besson who
continuously talks about this.
continuously talks about China just
dumping on the world and how they need
to start transitioning to a
consumptionbased economy.
>> They need to rebalance and if America's
putting up the walls to those exports,
the pressure is on Europe big time.
We've said this so many times, who's
going to eat it? The Europeans will have
to eat it.
>> And so at some point, if they put up the
walls, how much does it have to come in
tandem with the United States? I mean,
this goes to something that Tom Kennedy
was talking about. We talk about the
United States being more isolationist as
a result of some of these tariffs. Is
that true? especially if there is a
rearrangement of trade lines and trading
partners uh as a result and that really
does have China very much in the
forefront
>> to explore some of these issues. Puja
Kamra of TD securities joins us now for
more. Puja, welcome to the program. How
much of a challenge is Euro dollar at
11750 to this ECB?
I
>> think 120 is a number that's been
flagged by quite a few of ECB officials.
But I think one thing to that we need to
note is what is driving the strength in
euro and if it's coming v with strong
capital flows which is something that we
are also seeing. I think that's why ECB
members are not really scared of just
concentrating on the negative impact of
strong euro on inflation. They are
looking at the positivity when it comes
to deolarization trade and how is it
supporting the European economy. And I
think that's the kind of message they
want to actually focus on rather than
the disinflation part of the currency
impact.
>> There's a question about uh overdumping
over capacity from China and what that
does in terms of inflation, but there's
also a question about some of the trade
levels that we've seen in terms of
tariffs coming from the United States.
How much do you expect them to address
the ramifications from an inflation
standpoint, but also more importantly
for a downside risk to growth?
I think that's a great question and that
will be the focus for the press
conference whether they are actually
focusing on the domestic resilience or
the trade wars. When it comes to China
wars, I think they are trying to take a
step back right now. I think everything
is fluid but a 15% number is not
something that should make ECB nervous
in terms of the Europe US tariff. Again,
it's very early in the stage in terms of
getting a deal and we know these numbers
are very fluid. But I at this stage I
think they would address the
uncertainties. They will actually give
us some template take us back to the
June forecast where they had actually
given us the mild and the severe
scenario as well as their baseline
scenario which is based on a 10%
retaliatory tariff. So at this stage I
think they want to be neutral and as you
suggested data dependency is the mantra
for all central banks right now.
>> Puja I'm struggling to really see the
inflationary risks here. We're talking
about the disinflation from a stronger
currency. the disinflation from China
dumping uh over capacity on Europe.
We're talking about the potential for a
contraction in economic growth. Where
does the inflation pressure come from?
Yes, that's also a big good question. Um
I think the inflationary impact will
only come if EU is ready to retaliate
and I think that's the key risk because
then you will actually see the
acceleration and core goods which is
actually absent in terms of inflation in
Europe right now. So for us the
inflationary impact is kind of limited
but it's limited to how EU responds to
tariff policy. But I think one thing
also we could get inflation back to
Europe is how this fiscal policy works
right Germany is going strong with the
fiscal reforms. We don't know how it's
at this stage it's just one of the
ingredients towards growth but does it
have an inflationary impact? I know it's
a medium-term question, but when it
comes to ECB members, they need to put
everything together when they're
forecasting their inflation.
>> Puja, here in the US, we talk a lot
about a divided Federal Reserve. They
meet next week. There could be some
descent on this governing council. How
united are they?
>> I would say a bit more than Fed. Um I
think there is general uh unanimity
about that they are the policy is in a
good space and I think they still are
waiting and I think you can see in terms
of general data we are holding up well I
know France is the weaker spot when it
comes to Europe but other nations are
still doing well. So I don't think that
there's that much juggle within the
committee as we have seen in Fed or even
in the case of BOE. So I I I think
making decisions seems much more simpler
for ECB and primarily because
disinflation came in very easy for
Europe. It wasn't a task as we are
seeing in both US and UK.
>> Puja Kamra of TD securities. Puja
appreciate your time. Thank you. 200
basis points of cuts from the ECB in the
last year or so when they hit pause.
That word pause though they might avoid
that word. They might prefer the word
skip. They want to be agile, nimble,
open-minded about the future. They seem
to avoid the word pause, don't they?
Right now, traders are picking up on
that and they are still pricing in about
22 basis points of rate cuts for the
remainder of this year. The expectation
that sometime in the fall, they'll
resume it. This is the first pause or
skip, I should say, uh the preferred uh
rhetoric coming since July of 2024. So,
a notable departure as they assess the
landscape.
>> What's the landing zone for the ECB?
They're at two already.
>> Good question.
>> What are they coming down to?
>> Is it 175? What is the bigger risk and
where is the inflationary pressure
coming from? Is it truly retaliation? As
Pujo was just saying,
>> you can see this disinflationary shock
building from the policy front. I don't
know what's going to happen in the
future, but that's the direction of
travel at the moment.
>> I'm looking for where the inflation is
going to come from. And if it doesn't
come from China, it doesn't come from a
stronger currency. It doesn't come from
reacelerating growth. The only thing
that could potentially be is if some of
the industrial investment starts to pick
up, but we haven't seen that being
particularly inflationary either. So,
very curious how she's going to answer
that question.
>> A news conference with Christine Macard,
the ECB president, 20 minutes away. Up
next, breaking jobless claims data here
state side. We'll catch up with Nila
Richardson of ADP here to react from New
York City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The offs about 60 minutes away. Scores
look like this. Equity futures positive
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P. 3-day
winning run coming into Thursday. It's a
series of all-time highs on the NASDAQ
100 positive by 0.3. Economic data just
seconds away. Check out the bond market.
2-year, 10year, and 30-year bond yields
look like this. Yields higher by two
basis points. 440 on 10 on twos up a
basis point just short of 390 at the
very long end of the curve. Your 30year
at the moment is up three basis points.
to 49636.
Let's get you some economic data. Let's
kick it off with jobless claims. That
data hasn't dropped just yet, but the
estimate we were looking for was 226.
It's out now at 217.
The previous week was 221. 217 is the
right kind of downside surprise. And
jobless claims have just hung in there,
haven't they, over the past few weeks.
>> So, anyone looking for the bad news to
start showing up in the number of people
filing for benefits after losing their
jobs, you're not going to find it here.
pretty much across the board. You could
see initial claims four-week moving
average moves lower to 224,000
rather than staying at the 220 almost
the 230,000 from uh the prior week.
There just is a question here. Are we
not seeing something? Has the labor
market changed? Right now the market is
seeing honestly that resilience feeding
into the ongoing strength that so many
people are pricing in in the equity
market.
>> There are subtle signs though.
Continuing claims are still elevated and
this has been a theme now for a number
of weeks and we've talked about this. If
you're without a job in America right
now, it's getting harder and harder to
get a new one.
>> I'm glad you mentioned this because
actually continuing claims did go up
from the prior week. So, exactly
counterintuitive to what you had been
seeing at the highest right now going
back to June 20th. So, still not
necessarily going through the roof, but
still the sense that you're right, it is
definitely a stagnant market and you're
not seeing that activity really pick up.
>> Let's catch up with AR Jersey of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Ira, welcome to
the program. Next week, the Federal
Reserve will put out a statement. in the
first paragraph of that statement reads,
"The labor market or the economy is
solid." They use this word solid. Can
they keep referring to it as solid?
>> Well, I think when you have data like we
had this morning, you you could
certainly make that case. I do think
that they'll probably moderate that
slightly just because when you look at
the payrolls data, you know, it was
good, but it wasn't great. And and you
do see some of the details uh make
things look not quite as strong as they
had been in the recent past. But the job
market still is not an impediment to the
the Federal Reserve keeping rates on
hold, right? Like if you if if the Fed
uh really wants to cut rates, they they
kind of need to hang their hat on
something and it's not yet inflation and
it's not yet the jobs market cracking.
So I I I'm not sure if you could really
make the case that the Fed needs to be
cutting right now just given the
incoming data.
>> Governor Waller might make that case
next week. He might descend. Others are
saying they'll be on hold all year. Bank
of America, Morgan Stanley. We spoke to
Missouo early this morning. Guyra Jordan
Rochester said you can price out the
cuts in 25 and price more in in 26. What
matters here is chairman Powell is going
to be replaced. What do you and the team
think about that?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean Chair Pal one way the
other is pro is not going to be the
chair come next May. Uh I think the
question is does he leave before that or
or uh and and you know firstly and and
secondly um is he going to have
continued angst from the administration
where the administration continues to
say that rates need to be cut and cut
more quickly. Um yeah you know but again
like from an economic perspective that
doesn't seem to be the case right now.
Um, you know, and and I do think that
the the Fed will probably cut this year,
but not until the very end of the year.
And that's been our call since February
because the the incoming data that we
have now, you really need to see it slip
over several months for a bulk of the
committee to to cut. Keep in mind, even
if even if Jay Powell were to leave
today, you still have other members of
the committee and a bulk of the
committee that still thinks that the Fed
needs to be on hold for this year or it
will only cut once or twice. So you
still have relatively hawkish compared
to what the administration wants members
of the of the committee overall.
>> Ara Jersey of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Ara, thank you sir. With us around the
table, Nita Richardson of ADP Nita, good
morning.
>> It's great to be here with you.
>> It's good to see you. Let's talk about
this jobs data. We've heard a lot from a
lot of people who say this labor market
is no longer a reason to be hawkish. Is
it becoming a reason to be doubbish?
I think you can't say that this labor
market's not in transition. If you look
at the last three months of hiring,
they're slowing. It's clear. Um and so,
uh whether hawkish or dovish, the the
labor market is an issue on the table to
consider. Um and I think when we look at
next week, which will be jobs week, uh
we'll see a continuation of a slowing
trend. And I I'd like to mark that trend
with something uh that you can see
clearly in the ADP data. The slowdown
isn't coming from goods, it's coming
from services. And that is the
turnaround in the labor market. It has
been that services have held the water
for the labor market. It's really the
good sector that's suffered. And with
tariffs in play still, you would think
it would be the good sector that is
bringing down the the momentum. It's
not. It's services, which points to a
whole different case study on what's
really going on in the US economy. So
talk us through what that case study is
in terms of are we just seeing the cycle
shift from goods to services but goods
uh goods hiring will pick up
significantly or does it speak to a
broader type of trend you know there's
so many mega trends right now and I like
to look at the first six months of 2025
to the and compare it to the first six
months of 2019 before the pandemic this
was actually inspired by something um
Jonathan said about getting a pay raise
because if you look I thought it was a
great question. I wasn't satisfied with
my answer, so I went to the data and it
and it turns out that there hasn't been
an increase in new higher average pay in
over a year. $18 it's been. And that's
because the the supply and demand
dynamics have held firm. It's a really
balanced labor market. I think it breaks
because we're seeing lower supply. The
labor force participation rate now is
lower than it was six years ago. there
are fewer people working and looking for
work and that's what's going to keep pay
a little bit higher or a little bit more
stable for new hires than it was uh six
years ago. So this raises a really good
interesting question. Even if we get
numbers that look pretty good on the
jobless front, not that many jobless
claims. On the job creation front, more
than some people would expect. Is there
anything about this labor market that's
inflationary with wages increasing?
>> Well, this is a very deep labor market.
We talk about whether it's st solid. I
think of it as deep. Still waters run
deep. And what you're seeing is that
yes, if you look at job stays and job
switchers, which we look at all the time
at ADP, uh pay growth is elevated. But
when you look at those new hires, um
they're pretty stagnant. And I also look
at the job openings by the US government
which shows 500,000 more jobs now than
there were six years ago. But the hiring
rate, the rate at which employers are
hiring is lower. 3.4 in May compared to
May 2019, 3.8. There is less urgency to
fill those positions. And that's what's
leading to this no higher no fire stasis
in the jobs market. I think it breaks
because of labor supply issues. not
necessarily labor demand issues.
>> Governor Waller was sitting in your seat
last week and it seemed to really weigh
on him the unemployment rate on recent
college grads 7%. What's going on? Why
are they not able to get a job? Well, I
think it bends back to the data we just
saw. Um continuing claims it's harder to
get a job in this labor market where
supply and demand are in balance. And
for young people coming out into the
market, this is not their older brothers
or sisters labor market in 2022. They
were snatched right up. They have that
expectation. Their older sister told
them that they were snatched right up.
And that was the expectation. It's not
that labor market anymore. It's a labor
market that requires patience and
networking. It's Gen Z. It's going to
take a little bit longer. And where
these college grads are coming out
>> is what exactly is slowing. professional
businesses services are slowing down.
Finance is slowing down. If they were
coming out in construction, I think they
would see that kind of snatch up in the
labor market, but they're not seeing it
now.
>> Nila, it's great to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. Appreciate it. Nila
Richardson there of ADP. Jobless claims
are holding on. But the rest of the
labor market just starting to crack.
Some fragility there starting to brew
just slowly, but you're seeing it.
>> Well, you're just seeing just not a lot
of motion. And the fact that uh that the
ongoing continuing uh jobless claims is
so high and going higher tells you a
lot. What Nila was saying there is
fascinating. The idea of what kind of
wage growth are we seeing and you're
seeing wage growth actually decelerate
in Europe. At what point will that
justify in its own right what the uh Fed
decides to do if they decide to cut
>> that decision a week away. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. President Trump is heading to
the Federal Reserve today to tour the
construction site. He is criticized for
cost overruns as the renovation is
estimated to cost two and a half billion
dollars. Trump could use any evidence of
mismanagement or fraud related to the
renovation as a pretext for removing
Powell. Meanwhile, take a look at
Alphabet shares. They are rising 3.8% in
the pre-market after its second quarter
sales beat estimates. The company said
it's raising capital spending by $10
billion to 85 billion this year, citing
rising demand for cloud and AI services.
Google is weaving its flagship AI model
Gemini into its product portfolio as it
confronts competition from Meta and
Microsoft.
Meanwhile, American Airlines shares are
falling 6 and a half% in the pre-market.
The company reported second quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates and
it reinstated its fullear guidance. But
it said possible scenario scenarios
range from an adjusted loss of 20 cents
a share to a profit of as much as 80
cents a share. American also forecast a
third quarter loss exceeding analyst
estimates. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John,
>> if you don't confidently right now, you
get absolutely punished. Yhara, thank
you. Saw that earlier this week as well,
didn't we?
>> Yeah, pretty much. That seems to be the
way uh the way forward. I mean, Texas
Instruments, the idea that they talked
about, we're not sure if this is just a
pull forward. And those shares were down
something like what, 12% in pre-market
trading before the open.
>> They got hammered. This stock's getting
hammered, too. Up next, Terry Weisman of
McQuary, plus ECB President Christine
Lagard. Her news conference moments
away.
[Music]
The opening about 47 minutes away.
Equity futures unchanged on the S&P. If
you check out Euro dollar, the euro
negative, the dollar stronger, the data
in America. Okay. Jobless claims hold
on. The ECB and that news conference
just moments away. We can catch up with
Terry Weisman of Mcquaryy. Joins us
around the table. Terry, good morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> This from Deutsche Bank just moments
ago. Mark Wall, the question is, will
this be a short pause or a long pause?
How are you thinking about this ECB
meeting?
>> Well, you know, the the statement seemed
to suggest that the ECB is still very
data dependent. But I want to broaden
that definition a little bit to suggest
that it's not just about the data that's
going to come out. There are a lot of uh
crosswinds obviously besides the data
going on with the EU and and tariffs is
is that biggest crosswind, right? uh we
don't know what the deal will be between
the US and the EU and I presume that uh
even before any data that admits from
that deal uh will become known to the
ECB. The ECB may have to be forced to
make a forward-looking decision based on
what that deal is. Now the ECB has been
very plain I think especially if you
read between the lines maybe plain is
not the right word but you can certainly
infer from what they've been saying that
if the only thing that happened was that
the US imposed import tariffs on the EU
and the EU did not retaliate that would
be disinflationary for the EU. It might
be inflationary for the US but
disinflationary for the EU. So, if we do
get those 15% or 20% or maybe even 25%
or 30% if there's no deal, uh I think
that the EU will see that the ECB will
see that as as disinflationary and it
may compel them to cut again even if the
data is lagging. Uh on the other hand,
if there's retaliation, right, well then
it's not as disinflationary for the EU
as they may have presumed and maybe
they'll do nothing. Um, so you know, I I
have to interpret what she's saying very
broadly here to include what's going to
happen on the policy front with tariffs.
Um, having said that, I suspect that
she's going to reiterate today that the
ECB is in a good place. Uh, that 2% is
neutral. And of course, when you have
inflation running at 2%, that implies a
real interest rate of zero effectively,
which is not probably not that different
from the per capita growth rate of of of
the EU. And and it feels like the right
number. It's interesting listening to
you talk about trade as that news
conference gets underway in just a
moment. We'll head over there in a
second. You're talking just about the
agreement between the EU and the US. And
I wonder whether for the Europeans, the
more important agreement is between the
Chinese and the US because if the walls
go up here, they've got to weak the
Chinese exports,
>> right? So there's potentially another
source of disinflation in in the EU. If
the walls do come up here and the
Chinese are are unable to sell product
into the US, obviously they'll be forced
to dump their products into the EU. But
effectively, it's the same situation as
the walls uh in the US being built up
against the EU. If the Europeans can't
sell product into the US, they're forced
to redirect those products into their
home economy, that will be
disinflationary there. So, effectively,
anything that builds walls around the US
imposes some disinflationary pressure on
the rest of the world almost no matter
where you happen to be. Given all the
dis the potential disinflationary
forces, is Friedrich Mertz going to go
down to Frankfurt and try to get uh
Christine Lagarde to talk about her
renovations and what this means about
why they should cut rates sooner?
>> No, I don't think so. Um uh I I think I
think uh what's interesting about the
ECB and and and the nature of the
governance of the ECB where there is all
these countries that are represented
means that it's very very difficult to
impose uh for a head of state to impose
their will on on the governing council.
uh it's a very different structure than
we have here, right? You you have and
and of course, you know, some people
complain about that from time to time.
They'll say the EU is is inertial in
part because you have to get agreement
from so many countries to do some
things. Uh but in some cases that
becomes a good thing, right? You can't
have one head of state doing what he
wants and imposing his will on on a on a
on a presumably autonomous agency.
>> The Treasury Secretary said it. They've
got a collective action problem. That's
what he said to you just yesterday.
Terry Weisman of Mcquary. Terry, thank
you, sir. The news conference in
Frankfurt is underway. The pause has
started. How long will that pause be
after cutting interest rates by 200
basis points in a little more than 12
months? Let's take a listen.